Rafis partner was murdered due to doing/working with peace. His family suffered a great loss.
Most people travel to Europe or the Islands. They get a taste of the culture in those places.
I am sickened by different things that my country has done to certain people.
It was enlightening. The Colonel said that he barely fired his weapon in Afghanistan.
People would've been killed. Places would have been bombed. There would have been so much going on all at once.
I don't really agree much. It doesn't have to do with body structure.
Both guests helped us understand the condition. This is happening in Afghanistan.
I think the dialogue between soldiers and civilians that Sam mentioned was a beneficial idea.
He did have to experience some form of conflict throughout his life in battle. It was very minimal.
The husband is a black male. The wife is white with blonde hair and fair skin.
Everyone has their own interpretation. Some things should be universally accepted.
Religion is saying these things. How come people fight each other over religion?
I think you hit the nail on the head multiple times here.
I know that its not a constant fight, day in and day out like he said. I never really gave it much thought other than that.
I agree that Afghan civilians are not an abstract idea. They need to be recognized as people just like you and me.
And how much do we think about it?
I completely agree with your thoughts on putting ourselves in the Afghan people's shoes.
This helped me to connect the people in that scenario to the United States.
Daniel, I agree with several of your opinions on how we discuss race in this country. However, I'm not sure how we can really solve this issue.
Most of them are people similar to people in the United States. They are just trying to survive.
These people are just like us. We need to see that.
Two of my cousins enlisted. They have served/are serving multiple terms in Afghanistan.
I think. That is a perfect word to describe Afghan civilians after hearing the story of the Lieutenants experience in Afghan.
I agree with everything that you said.
Wars affect so many people. We are too caught up in our lives to really realize whats going on in other countries. We try to help them or at least support them.
In the video, Sam shows a graph of the number of civilians killed over time.
They deserve to be thought of and helped.
I may not understand the politics and the necessities of continuing the war. I know that no civilians want the war.
There are obviously a lot of things that civilians don't know about war. Most have never been in one.
Abigail said, race plays a huge part in peoples' lives.
Most of the time we would only see the perspective of a minority.
I feel that the interactive aspect of technology has more pros to the class than cons.
As someone who is from New York City, I know the feeling of coldness from a complete stranger all too well.
Afghanistan has had conflict. They are a lot like us.
I do wish they could explain what they saw. I really found no defining characteristics.
We have dedicated billions of dollars and thousands of men to fighting in this conflict.
Families are losing loved ones. People like Rafi who want peace are being threatened.
This lecture really made me think about things. Can we change the narrative?
I said it in my last post. I am a mixed race. My mom is Korean and my dad is white. I'm a product of a mixed-race couple.
Wars, new inventions, and all the things that we are doing right now just seem so useless.
It was shaped from a cultural history's timeline. This remembers all injustice, war, and hardship.
Will we ever see peace come to fruition?
I can't help but think about how different my life would be if I was growing up knowing nothing but life with war.
When he was deployed in Afghanistan, the kindness of the Afghan people really surprised him.
But in the video, Rafi was saying about something more complicated.
He lost the people who he loved most in this world. He lost the people for basically no reason.
He told how they invite you in to have a cup of tea.
Central/ South Americans tend to be more inclined to play soccer.
The sad part is people don't realize that regular civilians are being hurt by the war the most.
War is injuring innocent people. It is not necessary.
Pushing these questions further, whats the point of doing all these stuffs?
I wish race did not have such a large societal impact. I wish race did not exist. That is not realistic.
We are all taught this lesson. We are young. So many of us continue to fall into the same trap. We let our view and judgement be clouded by false propaganda.
It is interesting to me. Sam knew about them. That's due to the Twitter feed.
It shows how innocent these people are. War should never be a solution.
I believe there are necessity for war. Evil needs to be battled with force.
All they see about China was the China 30 years ago. We were going through a culture revolution.
The graph showed the number of civilians killed each year. Seeing it was scary.
First, you mentioned how fortunate we are to live in America.
I believe it is a breathtaking realization. Our personal problems in this country are significantly smaller than we think.
He tied it back to his religion. He made the point that continuing to be angry about what happened is not going to change anything.
Is it to dilute the fact that we are over there bombing and killing people? They are, in reality, not that different from us.
A common ground of understanding would help these issues to be resolved. It allows everyone to begin to truly see the real meanings behind gestures. A gesture example is the cup of tea.
I was always taught. We need to come together. Stop the race barriers.
When a tragedy like this is made personal, it makes it easier for us to empathize with the Iraqi and Afghan people.
My parents are Indian. I just have more respect for or understanding of Asian people. A lot of this wasn't new information to me.
But should we risk the lives of Americans?
For myself, I knew that a war was taking place in the country. It didnt feel real to me until the images and firsthand stories were revealed.
I personally think it will make civilians feel safer in these areas. They will know what the soldiers are doing to protect them.
The insight he provided about Afghanistan was very valuable to us.
Whether it be from movies or television or whatever, I always thought of Afghanistan as just a big war zone in the desert.
I believe the controversy over dating outside a race is fading out with each new generation.
I cannot even begin to imagine what he was feeling at that moment.
I completely agree with what you are saying.
It makes people uncomfortable sometimes. That includes me depending on the topic.
They are being sent into war with a purpose of benefitting other people. They are defending other people.
I'm sure at some point this war has chased families out of their hometown. It is often over looked that real families just like us live there
People do not quite understand soldiers. You can not really relate.
It's not fair that a culture can be viewed so negatively. A culture may not be given a chance to prove themselves. Nobody really travels there.
That probably already exists. something oriented towards learning and understanding would actually be beneficial. It could be facilitated by universities.
Education continues to reach the poorer areas of our world. I truly believe that one day we will all live in TRUE harmony.
Sam talked about Rafi coming here with half a suitcase full of gifts. He reminded me about how my dad did the same thing.
In engaging with civilians and security forces in Afghanistan, LTC Garey took on a new perspective as a soldier in a foreign land.
I also thought that the class was a very interesting one as well. We talked about race and sports.
He shows the graphical statistics of the military and Afghanistan deaths. They all rise high above zero.
War fighting is something that very few Americans understand. This is unless you are actively part of it.
This is a scary reality for me to think about. I have been so privileged my whole life by living in the United States. I always feel safe at home. I've never feared that one day a country will come in dropping bombs in my neighborhood.
I know that people have stereotypes about Chinese people. I do like math a lot.
Why would this man do what he does? He constantly gets death threats. Why would he put his life on the line?
I am sure that there are many Afghans that are kind at heart like the soldier said.
I don't think I would ever be able to be as hopeful. I wouldn't be as optimistic.
I realized that all the lower end jobs seem to have people with a slightly darker skin.
It seemed like a pretty even mix of all races in every sport we had.
US is not helping other countries by bombing their cities, hurting their civilians.
To see that the people were against the Taliban was something I wasnt expecting.
One student raised his hand during the class. He made a very good point. His point was sometimes people play sports based on availability.
Sam makes us remember. What happens across the seas is tearing apart actual people and their lives they made for themselves.
Living in the US, feeling safe seems like a right.
This was because the village leader was able to talk to the soldier. It was in an area where other people (who were Taliban) could not hear.
Maybe it goes back to slave labor for black athletes of African descent. Their bodies may have adapted to withstand harder working conditions.
The elder people in town would even invite strangers to their home for a cup of tea.
For example for many Latinos, soccer is the most popular sport. It depends what country in Latin America.
For the most part, the majority of his time was spent speaking with the locals. He was getting to know them and their culture.
My post discusses some of the same ideas. None of us really take the time to educate ourselves. What is going on in the world around us.
I think as an American I take my safety for granted. I have never experienced such a threat and danger to my hometown.
I instantly placed myself in the shoes of Lieutenant Colonel Rich Garey. I hoped a lot of people would care.
World in conversation and Penn state students is facilitating dialogues between. soldiers and cadets and civilians living in conflict zones World in Conversation is an amazing initiative.
Rafi came to speak with us. I did not even think about the fact that people actually lived there. This was was going on around them constantly.
I agree with the quote about how people tend to only remember the bad things. People never remember the good things.
Why would he risk it?
They did not choose to be in the middle of destruction. It is not them who are involved.
Before this class lecture Im not sure it occured to me. There was such a thing as talking about race too much.
I loved seeing his perspective on a couple different things.
I think this was a very good segment to Sams lecture. It sparked a lot of conversation and curiosity within the class.
Sam showed the number of civilian deaths is increasing.
It shocked me. He mentioned that his life is threatened every single day.
I think it is important to learn about other cultures. It can enhance our way of life.
This isn't the right thing to say. I always envisioned Afghan people as the turban wearing, gun holding, angry extremist people.
It's not racist to not want to date someone outside of your race. It is all about preference of what the person is looking for.
Starting a dialogue is definitely the simplest way. The Most effective way to bring about peace
Stories like that sell. I understand why the media chooses to selectively show stories that sell.
This is not any individuals fault just simple evidence shown by historical conflict.
I believe until an affirmative action is taken by someone of higher power to put an end to racism, we will continue to suffer.
It is imperative that we as Americans see past our own shores and actually try to understand people, understand their culture and their way of life.
It is what cements the bond between men in eternal brotherhood unlike any other experience in life.
I think it is very easy to get caught up in the media. It is easy to only look at the American heroic view of the war.
However, there are people just like Rafi. They are peaceful and kind in Afghanistan. They were born into the situation. They have to continue to live through it.
I think I feel somewhat detached from what is happening there.
If we as a human race could remember those I think we would get a lot more done here on earth.
It allows insight on a country thousands of miles away. It makes a connection to us and our daily lives.
It makes me sad to hear. These people have hopes. They aspire that their country will not always be known as war torn.
People will date different races more frequently. It will be accepted on a greater level.
The Afghan people have families they are providing for and protecting.
HE was nervous with people offering him tea. He is missing craving the food, the hospitality and genorosity. It furthers the way I now feel about judging a culture.
I originally was going to write about this topic. This topic hits very close to home.
I agree with your point Callie. Location definitely plays a role in the sports people play. Things like culture play a role.
Nothing has made an impact on me quite like this.
It caused us to forget the obvious fact that Afghan people are people just like us.
I only would focus on the people that were trying to do harm. I feel like this talk really opened my mind.
This land is still the home to many civilians. They rely on the resources in their area to live.
A thing that made me upset. We do not hear about people who are trying to go good in other countries. Rafi's partner was killed. Trying to help women. just like me, have equality.
I listened to Sam speak about the realness of war for citizens in Afghanistan. I realized that I have not been looking at the full picture.
It had been a dream of mine to go. My grandparents had been three times before. They said they would take me.
That was definitely what I had previously imagined before I joined the military. I can certainly understand.
The question is left unanswered. Americans formed a hazy idea of how the Afghan people live. It was nothing near the comprehensive understanding they really needed.
This man is definitely someone to look up to.
I know that was not the first thing that popped into my head. It made me realize I need to be more open minded. There are loving and courageous people all across the world.
They want their families to live in a country where bullets aren't being fired in the next town over.
Sam introduced his friend Rafi. Sam showed pictures of his children to demonstrate that people have children and a family like people in the United States.
I grew up in a household where we didn't talk about race.
All I ever imagined before was a war zone.
Turning on the news you don't see any of the average Afghan people being shown.
I always tried to push the topic of racism to the back of the room in my younger years.
It is frustrating to see the damage that our actions cause. It is also difficult to argue that we should take it away. There are powers that threaten us.
I think the media is a large contributing factor to this.
It is so far away and not affecting our home ground. We do not take it as seriously as we should. Rafi talking about how much the war has affected him made me reevaluate the way I think about war.
I, too, believe that everyone has a type. To find your match or soul mate, you have to be willing and open to try anything.
The troops were sent over there to fight. I really didn't understand what for.
Events like this happen all the time. They never get recognized. It isn't getting up on the television screen.
I think this really taught people not to judge a culture. Not without actually getting to know it.
Speaking about society's wayward views on race is a step forward. True acceptance of everyone's races is a feat that may be near impossible.
The lecture showed me what a privilege it is to have that security.
It is sad to see. The number of innocent Afghan civilians killed is rising each year.
My image of the Middle East has always been that way. It is all I have seen on the news, magazines, etc.
The people you are fighting are often unknown. They have no distinguishing uniform. It's not like in the days of World War II.
He is trying his best to raise a family in a heat of war. He is receiving death threats.
We should always have empathy towards people in warzones.
I totally agree with everything you said!
Then, she asked us what we pictured when she mentioned the bombs dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
People forget that there are civilians that live like everyone else in these war zones. The war and to a certain extent the media start to paint a universal image and thinking about the people of a certain nation at war.
The first thing people notice about me is the color of my skin.
I would have a very difficult time if I was living under the same circumstances as the Afghan people. I give them the utmost respect. They try to continue on their everyday lives despite all that is going on around them.
Media and other factors have influenced us. They say to not care about people themselves. Care about the population as a number.
In the end everyone has different features. They may be small and hard to notice. They are there.
Rafi's family really showed me how much Muslim's are like us.
In almost every war that we have fought, innocent civilian people have been hurt.
I always thought more American soldiers were getting killed during the war. The statistics revealed that a significantly higher number of civilians in Afghanistan were killed than American soldiers.
They said they are different than people in the US for that reason
I like how you said Afghanistan is a place with real people.
I never had a personal reason. To be invested in the subject.
The first thing is something that I thought about before. I never took much time contemplating it.
Spread the word to not judge people based on their racial background. It is an easy first step to promoting world peace.
He said if he doesn't do it who will?
I had no idea that the American troops were in so much contact with the Afghan people. most of these encounters were friendly and inviting in nature.
This makes it hard for whites to talk about their opinion.
For example who was the first person to point out that black people have a better body structure to play basketball.
They have families. Jobs and loved ones. Just like us.
Well, it is mainly because we can't understand their lives.
Taking the village leaders offer for tea shows a sign of good faith.
People have different tastes when it comes to dating.
I agree with you. Race is not talked about a lot.
Caroline, I agree with your point. I have done some of the things you mentioned.
We do not talk about racism enough in the right ways.
White privilege exists. It is alive and well.
You cannot look at history and see a moment where racism hasn't been around.
As a kid, I had only heard violent things about Iraq and Afghanistan. I was scared for him to go to Afghanistan during the war.
Children live in these conflict zones. They go to school. They play around with friends. They experience a childhood as well.
Civilians don't understand what it is like to go to war. They have no one or no thing to help them understand war.
The Lieutenant Colonel did not understand the customs of the Afghan people. He did not understand. The elder was not merely offering him a cup of tea. It was much more than that.
This idea leads me into my next point of understanding. We have a hard time connecting. We are simply not in the same area. We can only perceive information through articles and pictures. that the media dresses up for us.
I did not consider that people in Afghanistan have even more drive and reason to work to improve their own country. Many people from other countries go over to Afghanistan to help with certain matters.
Media has the power to influence how people see other cultures and what they can learn about them.
You should put that in perspective. Think of how we would being acting if this war was going on here. What if our lives were endangered like that every single day?
However, that does not mean that every means to serve their nation resorts to violence.
I often look at people subconsciously in a crowd. I think about how I am either similar or different to individuals.
I have had a lot of experiences with different races. I feel I can understand a persons background. After  I have a conversation with a person.
I am in agreement with Raf. I support the end of the war. It is causing mass destruction. There is really no reason.
I agreed with mostly every point that Sam made.
I think you make a really good point.
Culture awareness lets the other side know. We are trying to make peace.
In the end, I believe it is important to remember we are all humans. We all have our own needs, wants and cares.
We as Americans tend to forget what war is. We think war is just a thing.
The word generosity does not do justice to such acts.
Sam really got me thinking. He showed us the life in Afghanistan.
Just to be happy throughout our life time. To live up to our own conscience.
I do not think people understand. this is an actual country just like ours.
During the war, both sides of the troops need to consider the outcome of using massively destructive weapons. They can hurt really people.
I listened to the stories about the village elders coming out and offering tea to the U.S. soldiers. They welcomed the soldiers into their homes. This was something that really made me wonder.
I grew up in a very diverse community and school district. I was always exposed to all different races and backgrounds.
The Afghanistan war began in 2001. The Afghanistan war spanned the majority of my life.
I did not think that far back. That is an amazing example.
It was very interesting to hear from every day people. In a country that many think is supposed to be one of our enemies.
We don't feel empathy for things that don't directly affect us.
In 2016 there was a huge push. This included town halls to get people to vote.
I don't ask many questions about their deployment at all.
He used his slides well to illustrate just how similar everyone is. People in Afghanistan are just trying to get along with their daily lives just like anyone else.
Civilians often cannot defend themselves from war.
It was eye opening and thought provoking for me.
however, it is these passionate people that we need to make those final votes count.
Someone looked different than white Americans. How does that make them any less of a human?
Someone tells you statistics about war. It kills fifty percent of innocent civilians. There are bombings every day.
I personally had not thought about how the civilians have to act sometimes in order to survive all that they have.
We do not have the right to generalize. That all Afghans only think about war. We do not know many Afghans.
What Drives You? What do You Do?
I did like when Sam invited his friend to talk about his experience as a soldier.
Me personally I don't know. I would've been able to accept that. At first I would've been seeking revenge.
It may be a large populated city. It may be some small village that lies between two mountains. War takes place within the realms of people.
I could not imagine living in such terror.
Racism was always the uncomfortable topic. It is one of the longest and biggest internal conflict. It seems we can never fix it.
War to an eighteen year old kid from Central PA who has never considered enlisting in the military at all. It is such a foreign concept in a place that doesn't haven anything to lose from the war.
It was not in this particular video. When LTC Garey talked about the village elder offering him tea in his home it highlighted that we are not at war with the country of Afghanistan or the Afghan people.
He could very easily keep quiet. How could you really blame him?
The word Afghanistan comes to mind. I think about poverty, death, and war. I am guilty of forgetting that these places have real people. They are just like anywhere else who want no part in the war.
It is something that people forget.
She is helping us start a dialogue in children's education.
These are usually people that just want better for their country. Due to ignorance and hate, they are brought in into the war.
It is also interesting to view issues of war from the other perspective. This was like during the lecture with Bassim.
I don't think most people would think of vacationing in Afghanistan.
I totally agree with what you said. Race is beautiful.
No one in my entire family has ever really joined the armed forces.
Adam, you bring up an interesting point. A Point addressing the fact. Many Afghan people who were emotionally damaged did not have as much hate in their hearts as we would anticipate.
I am very open to being with someone from another race.
We are simply very lucky. We live such a privileged and free life. Our privilege means we often forget the struggles of other people.
I felt like I did in that moment too.
It connected me to the people of a war area. It reminded me to think about the cultural differences.
It is such a selfless way of viewing the situation.
However, achieving this is not easy feat.
I had little knowledge of how war affects civilians in their own countries.
We talked about this in my discussion group. Who's responsibility is it to inform us?
We are the great heroes of the world. We are always ready to save the day.
My dad had the same experience with Afghan people. They were always generous. They were hospitable.
We need to experience it our self with things like least hearing stories We cannot truly understand what exactly is happening somewhere else.
I think it is also important for Americans to hear this perspective. We consider what military tactics we are using in the region.
It goes to show this. Being modernized does not particularly make a civilization happy.
I think it would take me a while to see what they saw. It would take me a while even if I met millions of people of different races first hand. It would take me a while to become friends with each of them.
I'm not sure most of us wouldn't feel comfortable having tea with a stranger in a village there. That's kind of upsetting. It's almost that the culture is too welcoming for us Americans.
Assuming we ever fully understand a culture is dangerous. It can lead to even more problems.
It's not fair to assume things about people only based on a generalization.
All of this is greater than his fear of the daily death threats that he receives. For that he is inspirational.
Finally, the last thing that really struck me with Rafi. Rafi's story that he mentioned towards the end of the video.
I know a lot of mixed race couples. They are wonderful.
I feel like I am. I have a different outlook on life.
We dont really understand the extent of the war. Our military are the ones fighting.
It makes it easier to cope with much death.
Is it even more arrogant. You are the reason that most of the problems are occurring in said country.
This is the topic that comes up in class a lot. We tend to generalize that all of a certain group act the same way.
A man was going to put something in his tea. Actually missing Afghanistan is quite the transition.
It is interesting to learn about what their life is like.
I agree with everything you said.
This is not the first time this has happened.
We all need to see beyond the media. People in countries like Afghanistan are living their lives like normal people in US.
I'm not sure how this happens. Most of us somehow disconnect from humanity. We don't know what the real world is like.
Not only do we get the privilege of living without war. We are not taught why the war has even began.
I think the main issue though is that we are fighting a war.
I hope one day people will all soon realize. People there aren't different than the people here.
It was surprising how the Colonel told us that the Afghani hospitality was welcoming.
I think that we do need to make the topic more open. Making the topic more open helps educate society better. That will hopefully start getting rid of racism!
There were possible spies out listening to them. That was not apart of his culture.
In our own little ways, we can find ways to support people. Those whose lives have been affected by wars, conflicts.
People do not understand that today. Life is supposed to be a competition. In my opinion, I believe race does not define us.
He was there in the first place to find out who was in the Taliban not to have tea.
Every year the numbers get higher and higher. This is scary for the people living in that country.
We cannot just ignore race. You said that. We need to embrace it to a degree. It comes with setbacks.
It is likely this could never be fully traced back. It is an interesting thought to juggle.
I understand that bad thing is happening. That is only half of the story!
The point was clear. Sam said hockey is a Northern sport. More white people lived in the North. Hockey originated. he is right that is culture and location.
I chose the video clip Are Sports Inherently Racist?
I'm sure it has to do a lot with where you live, and your culture.
It says a lot more about a culture when it is suffering from war. Its people still welcome outsiders into their home because of their morals and their beliefs.
I agree with Jordan, everyone should look to this man. We need to realize how much love, dedication, selflessness this man puts forth every single day. We all can learn something very positive from Rafi.
They are not an abstract concept that livee in an isolated bubble. Our soldiers do not inhabit an isolated bubble every once in a while.
It is both unfortunate but relieving. I was not the only one who was so ignorant or incorrect about what war zones were actually like.
It was not in this particular segment. Eventually Lieutenant Garey talks about his meeting with an Afghan civilian.
Is it even possible for there to be no war?
They are stubborn. You cannot change them.
The only difference was the threat of the Taliban. The United States forces were looming over the citizens.
Its a shame that those stereotypes exist.
I don't think my parents ever saw it as an issue that needed to be discussed with me.
This really allowed us to know what living there is like.
Its amazing how Sam is opening up the eyes of so many students. It makes me wonder where this ignorance stems from.
I enjoyed hearing about the average Afghanistan citizen as well. I feel like I have continued to hear skewed info throughout my life.
It is so sad that they being affected by war and terror.
It is hard to resist if all we learn and know have been filtered.
Who will help bring peace to his country and to his family if he didn't try to do something to stop the violence?
There is another aspect that I think really brainwashes people. Having this interpretation of what war is. It's the education we are raised up on.
Families forged from fire tend to have the tendency to have stronger and closer relationships. This is true compared to families forged from bloodline.
You need to see all sides not just one.
It's hard to explain to someone. You have excitement to go out on patrol to search for the enemy. Then you get close with and destroy the enemy.
A better understanding of culture allows for a more worldly perspective. This reduces and even eliminates any sort of fear.
Many war zones were civilian homes first. They are not meant to be hurt; however, they are.
We should stop judging them as bad people. That is far from what they are.
People may think of Afghanistan of a place of terror and war. There are normal civilians who live there. That is where their families are from.
I do agree with you with our class being awesome and so accepting of people when it comes to volunteering for class  I do hope more people got comfortable with this discussion topic as well.
We stand up for what we believe in. Causing turmoil. Isues along the way.
Some never see the battle field on deployment.
It may not be the safest place to visit.
They probably would not have been thrilled at the people coming into their land. There would have been some amicable agreement.
I feel like it is time that we see something other than people with guns/ terrorizing.
War is a terrible thing. We as Americans need to realize how hard the war is on others. See it from an Afghan perspective.
I'm always scared to bring up some sort of touchy subject. To ask a question about something that they do not want to think about.
Speaking to Bassim opened my eyes. It broke my heart.
You think, what did he do to deserve to live in a country that gets bombed along with blown up often?
I didn't realize. These middle east countries had nice homes. The middle class existed.
It's not everyday you get to talk to people that have experienced the culture in Afghanistan. It's not everyday you get to talk to a citizen of Afghanistan.
It was nice to see his views of the country change. It happened while he spent time there.
I appreciate your post in giving a full understanding. There is a miscommunication with the way people perceive Afghanistan.
In regards to school, a job, a sport, etc., it always comes down to my race.
We see it pop up in the news more often. It has lead to the formation of anti hate groups such as black lives matter.
Sam mentioned how Rafi was raising his daughters. They were growing up in a war zone.
I never truly knew soldiers may come out of the experience making realtionships. Soldiers may he he build a connection with the opposing nation.
They don't really carry the weight of what it means to suffer and hurt.
Personally I don't think it is eye opening. It makes a white person realize how hard it is in every aspect. It still is hard for an African American.
The media. Average citizen should have asked this question. U.S. military involvement began in Afghanistan.
We are taught things growing up. Countries such as Afganistan are warn-torn countries. Their cities are strictly for battle.
Seeing Lieutenant Colonel Rich Gary in person was very impressive in my opinion. He talked freely about his time and experience in Afghanistan.
I do not see this issue ever subsiding.
Even though there was a con about the snarky comments, Sam immediately addressed the situation. He shut it down.
This love may not be big enough to end wars at first. It could definitely stop bullies. It could promote a kinder society.
Not living in that effects area can make you feel very disconnected.
Sam showed us the pictures of the city and traffic jams and shopping mall. I realized that some of the people who live in Afghanistan are not that different than me.
There were children who were killed. There were families who lost everything. There were people getting killed for no reason.
In this society, we all have ingrained insecurities. Most of us would change something about ourselves if given the chance. It was so empowering to hear her say that she is proud to be exactly who she is.
It is important to learn and listen. People in Afghanistan are real people.
There are a ton of innocent people who are getting harmed from this war. The harm is beyond unnecessary. They are just trying to live their lives like myself.
Many families were killed. They were basically left for dead.
Even I thought civilians would be okay. They are not part of the war. We talked about how real people are being affected by this war.
It is mind blowing.
Rarely does an average citizen spend their day fearing what such an attack could bring.
It is easy to see why no progress can be made. Progress is hard with a great many countries involved.
We see it on the news everyday about racial inequality. Despite the evidence, Americans will never sincerely accept the fact. That they were one of the biggest villains that the world has ever seen.
In the United States, we are fortunate enough to not have any war fought on our soil.
My graduating high school class had 130 students. As far as I can remember, out of all of us, there was only one black person and one Asian.
The question that always comes to mind. Why is war a continuing thing?
i did not entirely know what a modern Afghanistan looked like.
That was my hometown. My parents were living in it.
Without empathy, words are words. Situations are situations.
I think Bassims story definitely sheds light on the unintended effect of the United States foreign policy of drone strikes in the Middle East.
There is a perspective that the American policy caused him massive loss and grieving. As a result, he doesn't think that our country has the capacity to change its course.
Dr. Richards began to talk about the war in Afghanistan.
I want to talk about the war in Afghanistan specifically. It is the longest conflict in U.S. history.
I never seemed to notice that part about war.
I saw these chlildren with hardly any clothes or resources. They have this warm spirit and are so happy.
Racism will continue to exist 100 years from now.
Sometimes we are disconnected from each other. We only see what the news shows us. It is easy to get a warped view of what is happening in other parts of the world.
I mean I have heard about it. I kind of know who is fighting who.
I think it was good how honest Lieutenant Garey was. He was speaking about his first thoughts on Afghanistan.
My prayers go out to Rafi and his family. Everyone living in a war zone has my prayers.
I agree with the fact. People in the US want freedom and peace, Rafi wants it too.
This lecture was very eye opening for me as well. I look forward to broadening my view on the current war.
They may not have much. They are still willing to give and help.
I am from Ethiopia. Cominng here, just like most African Americans I have faced certain things. That comes with the history of the country. The fact that I am black.
I had never thought about the implications of war when it is local.
I put myself in his daughters shoes. I couldn't imagine saying goodbye to my father every morning, like it was my last time seeing him.
I would say that war can beneficial in its own way. It all comes down to it war is not good.
At what point is somebody going to take the courage to begin to implement actions to solve this.
My view on war is simply just a representation of the lack of empathy that Ive been raised to have with such simplicity and a lack of worry about my home land.
Mushroom cloud, houses and buildings torn apart were common responses.
I knew as much as most Americans. It's a country that has been a battlefield for a long time.
This lecture opened up my mind. I sympathize with the majority of people in Afghanistan. They are innocent. Only a small amount of people there, are evil.
My teachers mentioned it to us. I would see it in the news. I never really took the time to understand it myself. This is in this case my responsibility.
Real people are being affected.
This most definitely opened up my eyes. This showed me how privileged we truly are.
Fearing those people lead us to not giving them a chance to be learned about/ appreciated.
That's not true. Afghanistan is a country of almost 35 million people. This is a large number. There's no way that all of these people are bad.
Soldiers who had been served in Afghan would have developed a special bond to Afghan.
Everyone is always fighting and arguing. The world is only going to get worse.
It is 2017. It seems that things have not changed.
My oldest cousin left when I was young. I was     old enough to comprehend how dangerous a war can be.
Rafi is a prime example. Not all Afghans are in favor of the Taliban or the war in general.
Categorizing people makes things simpler. It can be unfair.
Unfortunately, my mind drifts towards the negative ideas> Such as terrorism, violence and the home to awful people who target and attack the US.
I am very quick to judge. I need to work on that.
I wonder how Raf/ his wife have communicated their situation to their two beautiful girls.
He told our class something. He was a peaceful man. This just hit me kind of hard.
The next thing the lieutenant said shattered my previous opinion even more.
We need to remove all preconceived notions that are brought about through stereotypes and misinformation from the media.
Another story that connected me to the people in war was the story of the man who made LT come in for a cup of tea. He would share information with him.
Our country was founded on racism. It is a huge reason why we think the way we do today.
This video really opened my eyes up to these concepts of war. The video showed me a different side of war.
They did not mean every man.
This is one of the most powerful statements Ive heard thus far in class.
They don't deserve for people to look at them and think they are people filled of hatred. In reality they just want to live normal lives like we do.
Talked about Martin Luther King and how he changed the lives of many people. Even just learning how others can be different than ourselves.
For me growing up in the United States I was never directly affected by war. Our army tends to be always be fighting over seas. There is never a war in our homeland.
I heard Lieutenant Garey share his story. He talked about how individuals were accepting. A man even invited him into his home for tea. It was amazing.
They are poor. They do not live normal lives.
I found this point in class interesting as well. I agree with you.
They have jobs trying to make away just like we are.
This question has been overlooked a long time.
It was surprising to hear about the constant threat that Raf is living. Just doing his job.
Educate someone to respect someone else. There would be no problem with differences.
It is important for speech therapists to understand. We dont provide them with inadequate services due to the fact that we dont know something about their culture.
It seems like a hopeless cause. The superpowers of the world are at war. You are just one person.
I automatically think of war. I see image of my parents.
It was just interesting to have the lens switched. Obviously most Christians don't agree with the extremist groups. The same goes with the Muslim people.
In your post you raised a lot of good points. Those points involved race in our culture.
I think it is more important. We can never imagine the influence in between the people. They have gone through all these together.
I've even heard plenty of stories of Afghani families. Families would invite service members into their homes for a large meal and well wishes.
His life had been threatened by the war in Afghanistan.
I say this because Ive never said goodbye to my parents in the morning. I worried about them being assassinated that day.
He did not do anything wrong. He was targeted. His family was murdered.
I like your quote about how if history repeats itself if we fail to learn from it.
This obviously isn't true. The media doesn't portray the positive aspects of the country. The media doesn't portray what it actually used to be. War broke out.
People know the number of civilians in Afghanistan being killed is increasing. Why is there nothing happening to help decrease those numbers?
Maybe it was the military person in him. He was always trying to be aware. He was smart about things. I would have done the same.
The conversation between Basim and/ SOC 119 class is one that I willalways remember.
Going off of what you said, I find myself wondering. Why people don't just get up/ leave?
I completely agree with you. I also don't believe we talk about race too much in America.
It certainly is visible that more black people participate in basketball. White people lean towards hockey.
The other thing is at my school there were basic sports. We don't have hockey, lacrosse, swimming, etc.
All we hear in the news today about Afghanistan is related to the ongoing war there. We hear nothing about the people that are being affect by this war.
Two very good reasons for war, which ended up being completely false.
We cannot forget it.
It is affecting the innocent citizens of Afghanistan. I think that is rarely thought of when it comes to both the decisions of the U.S. and the Taliban.
They are happy. That's the life they know.
I never seemed to realize that war really does affect real people.
As a civilian, I had little understanding of what life as a soldier is like.
Learning about the country you are going to occupy should be a requirement for the US military.
One thing that I wish would have been mentioned in this discussion by Sam was our Penn State reads book, "It's What I Do,' by Lynsey Addario.
The media is terribly biased. They like to show images and videos of war torn, destitute shots.
Throughout the class including my small discussion groups we have said that white people tend to be the most uncomfortable. They are offended due to race which I've noticed can be very true.
Movies display a Hollywood version of the Middle East This Hollywood version is very different from what it is really like.
In the video I selected, LTC Garey was asked the question. What thing did you learn while in Afghanistan that shocked you the most?
The first thing that should be established is we are all humans. We should be treated in humane ways.
When LTC Garey said this, I was taken back at the fact that a majority of this soldiers time was not on a battlefied. This soldier's time was simply interacting with others in the country that he was fighting.
However, for Basim, he still continues to lead a normal life. From what I saw, he seemed to feel content with the way his life is now.
We can try our best to minimize the issue. Unfortunately there is always going to be a group, individual, and/or community reversing our progress.
People all over the world may be going through tough situations/issues. Everyone handles it differently.
I agree with you. The educational system is very Eurocentric.
You are hard pressed to find interviews with the actual grunts on the ground. They truly show you what it is like.
We seem to be taught as a country that all Afghan people are violently, vicious, mean, etc.
These children are brought up learning their cultures values. Cultures values are often very different from American cultural values and social norms.
Being a soldier was about intelligence training and teaming up with the locals. I had no idea how important that actually was.
The news would have shown events like this to the general public and let them know what is actually going on overseas. Afghanistan would not have such a negative war connotation.
All it took for independence was Mahatma Gandhi and a few protests.
When I go to Argentina to visit my family it is predominantly white. I used to think that race wasn't an issue.
The men of the town were gathering. They were going to discuss the importance of voting.
Rafi mentioned he cannot just wait around. He can't just let other people take action.
I learned about the hospitality of Afghan people. It encouraged me to try to be a better person in that way.
It make complete sense that the elder and his family would be supporting the group that had the most power. In the long run they are the ones that can do more damage should the elder go against them.
I liked one part of your response. You said the war may eat such cultures and values up.
I think it is a fact that we do not completely know the other culture. Consequently, communicating it is more interesting to share.
the Middle East is portrayed far differently in the media.
Christians believe that the bible is Gods written rules on how we should conduct our lives.
With infinite access to the internet in modern times I too believe there should be so much more accountability for not educating yourself.
Civilians, whether they want to, are affected by this war greatly.
They should have the same experience that we had in class. Two guests spoke.
The soldiers interpreted it as poison gas. The soldiers made the decision to kill the kids. The soldiers put out the gas.
They have the same dreams and goals as us, school, jobs, and family.
The point you said about media not knowing everything but wanting the public to think they know everything is really important.
You always see the people with the big guns walking around. They look very intimidating.
He mentioned he was a lawyer in this country. He is trying to create laws and regulations to decrease the violence in Afghanistan. I began to wonder why he was doing that.
These citizens were at the wrong place at the wrong time. These citizens were walking to work and getting their day started when Little Boy was dropped.
I have never experienced a college class where social media has been advocated. At least, not to this extent.
It's also interesting. I see how friendly the Afghan people are to the American soldiers.
I agree with you. I feel outrage at the U.S response to Bassim's loss.
It is hard to imagine it as a prospering place with families who have the same dreams as we do. We are exposed to images of poor children and war and deserts.
What can we do to ensure that war won't affect innocent civilians?
Our Sociology 119 class is at Penn State. We are giving an opportunity to enrich ourselves with more knowledge about the world we live in.
Bassim has survived unthinkable atrocities as the result of war.
Every war before this has been fought on foreign soil.
It's impossible to answer that question. He doesn't deserve that.
I sympathize with your feelings about suddenly understanding the situation that the citizens of Afghanistan have to face on a regular basis.
I do chalk a lot of the issue up to ignorance.
I think every nation has its own fascinating cultures and values.
We don't have battles and bloodshed on our own land. It happens to other people miles and oceans away.
I cant imagine having to constantly worry about whats going to happen next. Its pretty much a war zone.
How could you be expected to forgive a country? They bombed your home, your dog, your family.
I grew up in an extremely safe community. It was close knit. Walking around alone at 11 pm felt perfectly safe.
I am guilty of thinking that way as well.
After watching this video, the people and events of Afghanistan became more real for me.
I believe there is more to the job of a soldier than most people recognize.
I know from personal experience one of my history teachers in high school made it a point of emphasis to open up class with a discussion on current events.
He does what he does. He feels it is his responsibility.
Learning about other cultures intrigues me. It seems tough to know where to start. You can talk to someone from that culture.
I definitely agree that Raf was a great guest. It is amazing to see someone fighting for peace amid all the war.
If the war was switched and occurring in America we would want it to end. Most people would not be agreeing with the ideology of a select few.
Though he is a hero, war was a traumatic experience.
He spoke. Something he said had a shocking impact on me.
He went through that list. I tried to put myself in his daughter's shoes.
He shows us Afghanistan broken up into its different districts. The districts are split up kind of like our own states.
Afghanistan has bustling cities with crowded streets, traffic jams and shopping malls like American cities do.
We always tend to look down at places like Afghanistan and such. In reality, there are a few things that Americans should learn from them.
I went to a Model United Nation Conference in Washington D.C.. I was talking about South China Sea issues with other American students.
The Tea Story was extremely impactful. It was interesting, like you said. I completely agree.
He needs to be able to spread his experiences to both civilians and cadets alike.
The vast majority of us here at Penn State have absolutely not idea what it would feel like to wake up every morning wondering about the possibility of seeing another day. We don't know what it is like to wonder about having another day to spend with your loved ones.
He mentioned something numerous times. The great people of Afghanistan are seeking peace.
Just trying to imagine what they go through daily is impossible.
I could not even imagine being in those civilian shoes. What is being done to them is something no one should ever have to deal with.
From an outsiders' perspective, wouldn't that seem a little extreme?
I agree with you. I agree that US does not talk about any branch of security. The US does not talk openly with other countries.
I have always wondered how it would be to spend a day in the shoes of ______ culture.
Every country deals with its own issues. At the end of the day, there are positive sides to the story as well.
The constant remembrance of these hard times can lead us to be more fearful. We lash out leading to worse situations.
He was more thankful that he is alive today. To talk about his experience. Not being bitter. About the events that occurred in the past.
I believe a lot of this can be attributed to the way media presents things. What is actually going on in the world.
They have to appease those in control to stay alive.
All it takes is awareness.
I admit I fail all the identification games we play. Sam calls out white people to make a point. I am 100%  his audience.
I wish I had enough courage. To do what this man is doing. In order to help others.
What can I do?
How much do we care?
I do not watch a lot of news. I do not keep up with a lot of current events in our world. This side of the story is never even spoken about. I had never put the thought into it.
All of these small details allow me to make connections to my own traditions and family values. The people of Afghanistan seem even more alike to my family and I than I ever imagined.
I do not agree with treating people like lab rats.
Most of this racial tension in conversation results in certain groups not feeling their opinions are worth being heard. Other groups are worried that they'll overly offend another group.
This particular story struck me. It showed how important it is for the US military to understand the culture of a nation before they go there.
I have sometimes turned the blind on an issue. I am a white male and I am not sure what to say or do. I fear I will offend someone or make things worse.
Rafi was talking to us about his life. How similar it was to ours. Thats when it hit me!
I think that the media is the major influence on most people from different countries around the world.
We need to do a better job at paying attention. Staying educated about what is going on in the world around us.
Just one of the many blessings of being born into the right nation.
Here we are over 25 years later. We are seeing more of these headlines in the news.
Dr. Richards said Rafi was receiving death threats. I originally had trouble understanding why he would stay in that situation.
In American culture speaking up and answering questions in class is seen as a good thing.
Sitting through this lecture has taught me much. It has changed my perspective on the effects of war.
Why is it so hard for us to see that?
There is something I love about this class. It allows us the opportunity to talk about different issues and topics. The topics that might be considered taboo or difficult.
I thought this class was particularly interesting. I feel like the war in Afghanistan is an issue People forget the war in Afghanistan is even still going on.
That is the side of warfare that society never gets to learn or hear about. More people should be told those types of stories.
Looking at the war from a different point of view has really changed my perception of war. Thinking about how citizens of Afghanistan must feel has really changed my perception of war.
India is an example It is one of the best examples of the military not understanding the culture they are working with.
The Lieutenant Colonel told us a story. It is a very powerful example of that.
He still holds a job, has friends, and lives his life normally.
Do we talk about race excessively?
The goal is universal. The goal is applicable to what people want in the U.S.
Not everyone who lives there is violent.
He could walk away from trying to stand up against the Taliban. He could let other people continue to try to take care of it.
Terrorist groups do not need fighting soldiers to be their targets.
He always wears jerseys. He loved the Celtics.
I realized one thing from listening to LTC Garey. I really think I misinterpreted what being at war entails.
All in all, I did really enjoy how I was able to dive into the current news in high school. I do believe that everyone can do a better job to educate themselves on what places of war are actually like.
I thought Ahmad Rafi did a wonderful job. He gave our class a clear view into the mind of an Afghan citizen.
It is almost hard not to be mad at myself for being closed minded enough to think that Afghan people are completely different from me and you. I am just glad that I gained a little bit more insight about Afghan people from this lecture.
I read news articles every day. I do not have a clear picture of what the U.S. is doing in the Middle East.
Only a minimal amount of the class could be used for current events. I did appreciate how he would talk about modern news every class.
He is talking about something like a dream. It is a long-term goal that might never be achieved in his lifetime.
In my opinion, there are two sides to take.
I always picture war as thousands of soldiers on a battlefield. They're shooting one another. That was the extent of it.
I can think of this question in different scales. That will totally lead to different answers.
I have had many thoughts, ideas and pictures of Afghanistan before.
This story highlights the utmost importance of learning the culture of a country.
Race is important to understand. It is key in making America what it is today.
This man is inspiring.
I think this topic discussed was important because of two main realizations or understandings. I encountered
I also agree that one day teams will look more diverse. This is due to sports spreading out geographically and traditional ways being broken.
The superpowers of the world want them to keep fighting.
I am not a expert in noses. I feel slowing down and looking would have definitely helped him to be more accurate.
Instead, we create some false picture of, maybe, what we would rather think.
They have a great culture. I would not have thought about learning about it if we were not introduced to it this class.
It has also made me aware of the cultural exchange that is a result of this.
Having no concept of another culture, you might be nervous when interacting with someone from that culture for the first time.
It was not until last year. I first start thinking about the impact of war on civilians.
Teachers should start to focus on these interactions that soldiers actually have on a day to day basis. Students and people in general can begin to grasp what it is that our American soldiers actually do every day.
My mom is no longer in the military. My dad is active duty. Both have been deployed to Afghanistan.
The US-led coalition has been responsible for the deaths of many Afghan civilians. That fact cannot be ignored. It was evident from the presentation.
To me, there is no such thing as talking too much about race.
I feel like everyone should be educated on what is going on.
My only wish is that somehow, someway he finds justice. I'm not really sure if it would ever make up for what he's lost.
The coverage of Afghanistan on the news is what really made out a bad image for them in America.
Hearing the word Afghanistan the picture that would automatically come in my mind is similar to what LTC Garey says in this video.
They might gave reasons for going. I believe the reasons where just an excuse just to go invade another country.
It was amazing. It would never happen in the United States if the situation were flipped.
Sam brought speakers. They were from Afghanistan and America. I wasn't sure what to expect.
The hardest thing to face about both of these books and religions is what Sam based this video off of: interpretation.
I thought that the class on September 12th was one that I found particularly interesting.
It makes you think about how trivial our daily issues are. Comparatively to what people in other parts of the world are going through.
I feel it is important that we take our own initiative to learn about what the media will not show.
I'm wondering how others reacted to this lecture. Especially the part featured in the video, and if it pulled at their heartstrings at all.
The war has caused American troops to lose their lives. Some families have been left in the dark.
I naively had the wrong ideas of the Islamic faith. I thought it was a much more complex religion than Christianity. I thought it was a more strict religion than Christianity.
I agree with what you had mentioned. Children should grow up learning the war from another perspective.
It is by seeing the Afghan people as people that we will limit the amount of casualties. I also believe that that will prolong the conflict.
He had a lack of understanding of for the culture in Afghanistan. It delayed his objective in pinpointing who the Talibam !
In fact, they can even relate. They can assist our own soldiers.
White privilege is a thing. Statistics back it up. I feel that its not the answer to everything.
He said social work, economy and normal life are destroyed. That was difficult to listen to.
They are the ones minding their own business. They would have nothing to worry about.
This made me realize something. We are only being given half of the story.
I never looked too much into it. It didnt affect me personally.
He begins by saying that if he stops fighting, then who will continue?
I found this portion of the lecture interesting.
The idea that someone is different naturally puts people on edge.
This was the first time I wasnt exposed to the radical images of afghan people. For the first time I realized that I was in the complete wrong. I fell into the social norm of stereotyping.
In modern media, other civilizations are generally shown in a certain way. This implies certain meanings about them.
Things are not as bad as they seem.
I guess I always knew it was genetics. I didnt know why our features are the way that they are.
To be honest, I never understood the Iraq war.
Because of this, it is really hard for me to understand the amount of death and sacrifice. It was hard to understand that was put into this war by so many different people.
Innocent people are dying. They are trying to live their everyday lives.
Sam's discussion made me think more about religion. It might be interesting to read both the Bible and the Quran. It might give me a better understanding of what the books actually tell people to believe and follow for their daily lives.
The only reason that I can tell myself is that maybe were just doing everything selfishly.
Seeing the photo of Basim's house after the bombing made it even that much more real to me.
I'm sure that the good people in the USA and the good people in Afghan all agree. We wish those awful people amongst us would just go away. We wish they would stop ruining the beauty of differences.
You need to see these perspectives on a personal level. It is hard for the majority of civilians to understand what war is like.
He already changed my opinion of the Afghan people. I heard him speak for a short period of time.
This was surprising. Often times I feel as though people (including myself) associate regular people living in the Middle East. People living in the Middle East have a strong political position with the party that is native to their country.
I guess at the time, I really did not have much choice to choose from. I'm talking race wise.
I took the time to actually break down these differences in people based off of where they are from. It really made me think differently about the topic of race.
So why are they only showing us the bad things that happening in Afghanistan?
It appears it is the opposite.
By hearing people speak about war and seeing the real people and families afflicted we gain a sense of understanding. We gain empathy that we may not have had before.
The people wanted to teach them their morals, religion, way of life, and overall culture. Thus they could have a better understanding of who they truly are as a country.
Like Sam said, the vast majority of people in power are whites.
However, someone who doesn't want to be there will not resist the temptation to be distracted by their technology platforms. They will not take away what the student who DOES want to be there, gets from the class.
Race can have hundreds of meanings depending on who is talking.
Real people being affected by war.
Bassim is truly a great individual. I appreciate him coming together with Sam to have him speak to us.
I thought it was cool. Their culture is about giving. Most have very little. I think we can really learn from the people of Afghanistan, in that sense.
he Lieutenant never mentioned the word generosity. At the end of his speech, Sam did.
We live in the country. We have soccer, cross country, basketball, baseball, softball, track.
Sam started telling the story of Basim. He showed the pictures of his house and family. It really put things in perspective.
Young, innocent blacks have been victim to racism by the police for several years.
It is amazing how Basim is able to forgive and carry on with a purpose. This leads to my thought. It is very important for the people who do not understand the Islamic faith to become more educated on it.
Him/ his best friends that were white talked basketball all-day-every-day.
Afghanistan in the recent decade has faced war.
I think people don't always think about the citizens and people of a country at war.
The white person is just imagining. They were being treated like Africans Americans.
Even Richard mentioned it. He had his own convictions. They were not so in favor of these people.
I really appreciated this discussion about the civilians in Afghanistan. It is a topic that has never once even crossed my mind.
His home was completely demolished. There was rubble and broken pieces of concrete everywhere.
It's really refreshing. Sam bluntly points out how we are all the same. Our skin color or distinctive racial features don't matter.
I couldn't agree more that society is very open to interracial relationships.
There was simmering discontent under the British yoke. Simmering discontent led to the Revolt of 1857. Several Indian men conscripted in the British army mutinied. Several Indian men who mutinied led a nationwide revolution to eject the invaders out of India.
I agree. This is likely due to a lack of exposure to diversity.
We see that 50 Afghans were killed in a suicide bombing at a wedding. we can't imagine the impact of that.
I agree with your thoughts on this. We discuss Afghanistan very little outside of the war.
I never paused to consider the Afghan people. Their homes were being invaded.
My high school was pretty diverse. Interracial dating was normal and accepted.
Some people feel so strongly. We have reached a point of no return with the state we are in.
Maybe, then, it is important that we take some initiative of our own to go and explore other cultures for ourselves.
Education would allow individuals to walk in someone elses shoes prior to engaging.
They live such different lives than I do. It wasn't weird to me. They do have such different culture.
We have no power to start, prevent, or end a war.
It is so upsetting to think about how many children and families fear for their lives while doing simple everyday things. Taking the bus to school or going to the grocery store are examples.
I found his strength and humility to be incredible.
Afghanistan is a real place with real people who have normal lives like any other country in the world. Because of the war, people are living in fear not knowing what is going to happen next.
Rafi's wife says goodbye to him everyday before he goes to work. She does not know if there will be an explosion that could hurt him or his family.
Americans are being misguided. I feel like it is time for us to inform and show the people of this place and not the war!
Assuming I had to send my biracial daughter to school I would never allow her to go through what I went through.
This man has such strong beliefs. This man demonstrates just how much he believes in what he is doing for his family and country by continuing his work.
What happened to Bassim has probably happened to many other families in Afghanistan. No one here in America talks about it.
You cant always pin the problem on white privilege and how easy they have it.
I used to think the war had more of a negative impact. It is clear. I was wrong.
I always thought that war was about the United States constantly fighting. That it was about  shooting the enemy in order to protect our citizens.
It saddens me. We live in a world so divided today.
Jordan, I feel the same exact way about Rafi. He puts forth incredible bravery every single day of his life.
I heard about the bombing. It made me think. How I'd feel if a local shopping center near me were to be destroyed by a foreign military?
There is obviously still problems with race in out country. No matter the color you are, you see it in everyday life.
If soldiers do not understand about a religion, it would be difficult to find the solution to the problem.
We all have the features to help us survive in a certain climate.
Growing up, I always read about war.
Cooperation and dialogue is not one sided. Assuming the other side is welcoming 0in a war zone is a leap of faith.
They bounce off of each other. It's awesome to be around.
I agree that everyone has their own views. Even about life and war over in Afghanistan.
He talks about his wife saying goodbye every morning. They do not know what could happen that day. It could be a bomb or an attack.
It is absolutely unfair to the civilians. If the situation was flipped, and our land was being ruined mercilessly, we would obliterate them.
I think it all depends who the person is, honestly.
They have their own word that's the K word. It is super offensive. It is something you just don't say if you're decent. It's still not as serious as the N word.
I grew up in a quiet, suburban area. It was unfamiliar with war. Unfamiliar with the pain that comes alongside it.
Racism is something this country does not like to talk about.
I was a participant in this activity. I agree that Jeffton did a very good job.
I assume that people from Afghanistan are violent. Everything we hear on the news about Afghanistan is war related.
It is interesting that it was brought it back to colonization.
We have this great opportunity. You cannot go on campus a single day without hearing someone complaining about school.
They are regular individuals. They have families, jobs, hopes, and dreams.
Americans might not understand the actual capabilities and qualities of other countries. This is because of our education system.
His openness to it makes the class so interactive. There are so many people in the class.
He was born in Afghanistan. He has to continue to live through conflict each day.
It was a great opportunity. Not many people have that opportunity. It was awesome to be a part of it.
I was a little taken aback. Sam asked about how black people can point out the shine to [Jeffron's] skin. White people can't.
No one should ever be scared to live in their own country. Not whilst they have done nothing.
War seems to really dehumanize people.
It was inspiring when he felt that God had a reason that he survived the bombing. He must keep on living for his son.
Our main mission has been the same going back to 9/11. It is to eliminate terrorism wherever it may exist.
We all grow up differently. Every class we have, makes me want to be more empathetic towards people. I don't want to start making automatic assumptions based on their race, religion, culture, etc.
He's one of the greatest people I've ever met.
People live in Afghanistan. The war, the presence of other countries, and the danger around them are a part of their lives.
I agree about the media falsely informing the public about how people in countries like Afghanistan actually live.
I would argue. Women are built differently. It's not that women athletes don't work hard. Their records fall short on average.
I think it may very well be the case. It is hard to tell.
Elementary school was tough. We learned the basics.
I agree that conflict can look far away. It can seem unrealistic at times. This is due to the fact that we do not live it every day.
Blindly doing what you think is right without considering how it might look is short-sighted.
I have changed my perspective of them. I realized they are similar to us.
I never really put myself in someone else's shoes. I never thought about how they felt.
Those two bombs claimed multiple lives. It was a tragic, mournful day in our nation's history.
Hearing about what life is like in a war zone has changed my perspective on my own life.
I grew up in a low income community all my life. Looking back the predominate sport has always been basketball.
It took insight from a native. It helped to give him the directions of how to approach the elder. They talked over tea.
I am idealistic. Media will always show some bias in their presentation of other peoples. It is a shame.
Afghans are made out to be individuals who are always in war. That is all they know.
Every time a civilian is hurt it affects the lives of all others.
Most people seemed very unhappy to announce they didn't truly believe in our Country to pull through this incredibly difficult time we are in.
I cannot fully understand it. I do believe it is there.
That isn't the response I really expected from the lieutenant. I heard the same thing he had. Afghan people were people of war.
I think this man is incredibly brave. I find myself questioning whether I would be able to do the same thing.
He was here in America. He was speaking to us. He was safe from those threats.
I just don't understand why. That is all we are exposed to.
Even though they are experiencing war, they are still generous and kind.
A future where all skin colors, religions, and cultures are accepted as one.
We never really think about the little parts. They make the whole of it up.
He talked about some small kids that were killed. They were doing a good luck ritual for the American soldiers involving incense.
He told us a lot about what the lifestyle there is like. He tells of the constant danger he faces every day.
I heard what it's like living in a war zone. I have taken living in country as safe as America for granted.
That is the major point I got out of this class.
I wasn't even really sure where Afghanistan was. Sam showed us the image in class.
I am sad that my friends were treated that way.
There are many cultures have similar policies where they keep open doors. The are more friendly to their neighbors.
They never thought it was an issue in our household.
It scares me a lot. It's a reality that millions of people are forced to live.
The US does not talk about any branch of security openly. They do not want other countries to know how they operate.
This class session was really interesting. It felt deep having people with first hand experience of the Afghanistan war in class to talk to us.
They were not only do harmful things to other countries. They are threatening those who are citizens of Afghanistan.
In the video on, What can the military do better?
He made a great point. When we often hear about a country like Afghanistan, we attribute it to the things we are subjected to the news.
We are sending people into war with no concern for life.
I was able to join the women in their dance.
This is a subject that never usually crosses the minds of people who are raised in America. We are so accustomed to the norm of racism. Most of us are unable to think outside of the box.
It makes me cringe to think that some place within driving distance of me could one day be turned into a war zone. Just like Afghanistan.
It showed me that he really does value us. He really does care about how we feel in class.
I completely agree with you. We need to not jump to conclusions about people or groups of people so quickly.
This person tells Lieutenant Garey something. They say the side the local people support is the side of whoever has control of their community at the time.
People see this distorted image. People naturally picture Afghanistan to be that way.
The lives of the young boys who were burning the incense to protect the soldiers, could have been spared. Simple understanding on the soldiers' parts was necessary.
Peace isnt achieved until either side gets what they want and stop the fight.
Most people don't get to experience what he experienced. I appreciated him sharing it with all of us.
It is a reality Rafi faced. He faced it with his now deceased partner everyday they did their work.
While I am not necessarily trying to prove a point with this response, I feel that this observation is worth acknowledging and discussing. I'm glad that lessonbrought it to everyone's attention in class.
We need to find a balance.
When we learn about war in history classes, it's more of a rundown of facts.
The fact that they can gracefully pick their lives back up Trek on with fulfilling responsibilities is astonishing. Honestly is quite inspiring.
This particular clip made me think about my own life.
I never understood why people had different colored skin before this class.
The worst of it all is that many of these groups are the most vocal ones. These groups only make up a small proportion of the population.
There is an amazing part. Rafi does not HAVE to put his life on the line.
It is almost unimaginable to think about what life in a war zone would be like. People who grown up in the United States can not imagine what life in a war zone would be like.
I can never imagine what I would do. I lost everything suddenly.
Like Lieutenant Colonel Garey says, most of his job overseas was interacting with civilians.
The question asked was what did you learn in Afghanistan that shocked you the most.
I have been lucky enough to have never encountered war directly.
Although they are sad it does not phase the attitude. No matter what they contain to go throughout. Their everyday lives doing what they feel they were put on this Earth to do.
I grew up as Catholic. I became a non denominational Christian later on.
It is unimaginable to be in Rafi's position.
He's aware that his life is on the line. He keeps fighting the good fight.
The fact that Americas interest in oil in Iraq lead to so many deaths is unfathomable to me.
I thought Raf was a very kind man. The way he talked about his family was adorable.
I find myself being completely guilty of that mindset. I absolutely need to change that.
There are elements of Afghan culture that Americans can learn from.
I am responding to your post. I feel like you also did that for me.
It is inhumane for Americans to not view these people with value.
There are to many stereotypes that are associated with different cultures. This causes everything to be so difficult.
By addressing race we allow input for others. Others may feel otherwise. This could result in more issues.
I think this is a really broad question.
People don't understand how war affects people's everyday lives.
They are very different from one another in regards to their occupations. She is an art teacher. He is a business man.
Clearly there are simple disconnects. The soldiers misunderstood why the children were running down with incense.
It was great to have Rafi come and talk. He opened my eyes to the fact that people in Afghanistan are real people.
I could not imagine living somewhere. Then one day having my world turned upside down due to another countrys government.
