Rafis partner was murdered for doing/working with peace, and his family suffered a great loss.
Most people travel to Europe or the Islands and get a taste of the culture in those places.
I am sickened by different things that my country has done to certain people.
It also was enlightening too how Colonel said that he barely fired his weapon in Afghanistan.
People would've been killed, places would have been bombed and there would have been so much going on all at once.
I don't really agree too much about it having to do with body structure.
Both guests helped us understand the condition happening in Afghanistan.
I think the dialogue between soldiers and civilians that Sam mentioned was a very beneficial idea.
As he did have to experience some form of conflict throughout his life in battle it was very minimal.
The husband is a black male and the wife is white with blonde hair and fair skin.
Everyone has their own interpretation but there are somethings that should be universally accepted.
If religion is saying these things how come people fight each other over religion?
I think you hit the nail on the head multiple times here.
I know that its not a constant fight, day in and day out like he said, but I never really gave it much thought other than that.
I agree that Afghan civilians are not an abstract idea and need to be recognized as people just like you and me.
And how much do we think about it?
I completely agree with your thoughts on putting ourselves in the Afghan people's shoes.
This helped me to connect the people in that scenario to the United States.
Daniel, I agree with several of your opinions on how we discuss race in this country but I'm not sure how we can really solve this issue.
Most of them are people similar to people in the United States, and they are just trying to survive.
These people are just like us and we need to see that.
Two of my cousins enlisted and have served/are serving multiple terms in Afghanistan.
I think that that is a perfect word to describe Afghan civilians after hearing the story of the Lieutenants experience in Afghan.
I agree with everything that you said.
Wars affect so many people and we are too caught up in our lives to really realize whats going on in other countries and try to help them or at least support them.
In the video, Sam shows a graph of the number of civilians killed over time.
They deserve to be thought of and helped.
I may not understand the politics and the necessities of continuing the war, but I know that no civilians want the war.
There are obviously a lot of things that civilians don't know about war since most have never been in one.
Like Abigail said, race plays a huge part in peoples lives.
Most of the time we would only see the perspective of a minority.
I feel that the interactive aspect of technology has more pros to the class than cons.
As someone who is from New York City, I know the feeling of coldness from a complete stranger all too well.
Afghanistan has had conflict, but they are a lot like us.
However, I do wish they could explain what they saw because I really found no defining characteristics.
We have dedicated billions of dollars and thousands of men to fighting in this conflict.
Families are losing loved ones and people like Rafi who want peace are being threatened.
This lecture really made me think about things, can we change the narrative?
I said in my last post that I am a mixed race because my mom is Korean and my dad is white, so Im a product of a mixed-race couple.
Wars, new inventions, and all the things that we are doing right now just seem so useless.
It was shaped from a cultural historys timeline, which remembers all injustice, war, and hardship.
Will we ever see peace come to fruition?
I can't help but think about how different my life would be if I was growing up knowing nothing but life with war.
When he was deployed in Afghanistan, the kindness of the Afghan people really surprised him.
But in the video, Rafi was saying about something more complicated.
He lost the people who he loved most in this world for basically no reason.
He told how they invite you in to have a cup of tea.
Central and South Americans tend to be more inclined to play soccer.
The sad part is people dont realize that regular civilians are being hurt by the war the most.
War is injuring innocent people which is not necessary.
But if we push the question even further, whats the point of doing all these stuffs?
Just like the next guy, I wish race did not have such a large societal impact and it did not exist, but that is not realistic.
We are all taught this lesson when we are young, but so many of us continue to fall into the same trap and let our view and judgement be clouded by false propaganda.
It is interesting to me how Sam knew about them because of the Twitter feed.
It shows how innocent these people are and that war should never be a solution.
I do believe there are necessity for war, and evil needs to be battled with force.
All they see about China was the China 30 years ago when we were going through a culture revolution.
Also, seeing the graph of the number of civilians killed each year was scary.
First, you mentioned how fortunate we are to live in America.
I really believe that it is a breathtaking realization that each of our personal problems in this country are significantly smaller than we think.
He tied it back to his religion and made the point that continuing to be angry about what happened is not going to change anything.
Is it to dilute the fact that we are over there bombing and killing people who are, in reality, not that different from us?
A common ground of understanding would help these issues to be resolved by allowing everyone to begin to truly see the real meanings behind gestures such as the cup of tea.
To me, I was always taught that we need to come together and stop the race barriers.
When a tragedy like this is made personal, it makes it easier for us to empathize with the Iraqi and Afghan people.
My parents are Indian, so maybe I just have more respect for or understanding of Asian people, but a lot of this wasnt new information to me.
But should we risk the lives of Americans?
For myself, I knew that a war was taking place in the country but it didnt feel real to me until the images and firsthand stories were revealed.
I personally think it will make civilians feel safer in these areas, knowing what the soldiers are doing to protect them.
The insight he provided about Afghanistan was very valuable to us.
Whether it be from movies or television or whatever, I always thought of Afghanistan as just a big war zone in the desert.
I believe the controversy over dating outside a race is fading out with each new generation.
I cannot even begin to imagine what he was feeling at that moment.
I completely agree with what you are saying.
It makes people uncomfortable sometimes, including me, depending on the topic.
They are being sent into war with a purpose of benefitting other people, and defending other people.
Although Im sure at some point this war has chased families out of their hometown, I believed it is often over looked that real families just like us still live there.
I think another reason people do not quite understand soldiers is the fact that you can not really relate.
It's not fair that a culture can be viewed so negatively without even being given a chance to prove themselves because nobody really travels there.
That probably already exists, but something oriented towards learning and understanding would actually be beneficial, perhaps facilitated by universities.
As education continues to reach the poorer areas of our world i truly believe that one day we will all live in TRUE harmony.
When Sam talked about Rafi coming here with half a suitcase full of gifts that reminded me about how my dad did the same thing.
In engaging with civilians and security forces in Afghanistan, LTC Garey took on a new perspective as a soldier in a foreign land.
I also thought that the class when we talked about race and sports was a very interesting one as well.
He shows the graphical statistics of the military and Afghanistan deaths which all rise high above zero.
Warfighting is something that very few Americans understand, unless you are actively part of it.
This is a scary reality for me to think about because I have been so privileged my whole life by living in the United States that I always feel safe at home and never fear that one day a country will come in dropping bombs in my neighborhood.
I know that people have stereotypes about Chinese people(but I do like math a lot).
Why would this man do what he does even though he constantly gets death threats... why would he put his life on the line?
I am sure that there are many Afghans that are kind at heart like the soldier said.
I don't think I would ever be able to be as hopeful and as optimistic as him.
Then as Sam mentioned I started realizing that all the lower end jobs seem to have people with a slightly darker skin.
It seemed like a pretty even mix of all races in every sport we had.
US is not helping other countries by bombing their cities, hurting their civilians.
To see that the people were against the Taliban was something I wasnt expecting.
One student when he raised his hand during the class did make a very good point which was sometimes people play sports based on availability.
Sam makes us remember that what happens across the seas is tearing apart actual people and their lives they made for themselves.
Living in the US, feeling safe seems like a right.
This was because the village leader was able to talk to the soldier in an area where other people (who were Taliban) could not hear.
Maybe it goes back to slave labor, for black athletes of African descent, and how their bodies may have adapted to withstand harder working conditions.
The elder people in town would even invite strangers to their home for a cup of tea.
For example for many Latinos, soccer is the most popular sport, but it depends what country in Latin America.
For the most part, the majority of his time was spent speaking with the locals and getting to know them and their culture.
My post discusses some of the same ideas, none of us really take the time to educate ourselves on what is going on in the world around us.
I think as an American I take my safety for granted because I have never experienced such a threat and danger to my hometown.
I instantly placed myself in the shoes of Lieutenant Colonel Rich Garey and I hoped a lot of people would care.
World in conversation andPenn state students facilitating dialogues between soldiers and cadets and civilians living in conflict zones is an amazing initiative.
Until Rafi came to speak with us, I did not even think about the fact that people actually lived there, and this war was going on around them constantly.
I agree with the quote about how people tend to only remember the bad things, but never the good.
Why would he risk it?
They did not choose to be in the middle of destruction and it is not them who are involved.
Before this class lecture Im not sure it occurred to me that there was such a thing as talking about race too much.
I loved seeing his perspective on a couple different things.
All in all, I think this was a very good segment to Sams lecture and sparked a lot of conversation and curiosity within the class.
As Sam showed, the number of civilian deaths is increasing.
It shocked me when he mentioned that his life is threatened every single day.
I think it is important to learn about other cultures because it can enhance our way of life.
This isnt the right thing to say but I always envisioned Afghan people as the turban wearing, gun holding, angry extremist people.
I dont think its racist to not want to date someone outside of your race, I think it is all about preference of what the person is looking for.
Starting dialogue is definitely the simplest, and yet most effective way to bring about peace.
Stories like that sell, so I understand why the media chooses to selectively show them.
This is not any individuals fault just simple evidence shown by historical conflict.
I believe until an affirmative action is taken by someone of higher power to put an end to racism, we will continue to suffer.
It is imperative that we as Americans see past our own shores and actually try to understand people, understand their culture and their way of life.
It is what cements the bond between men in eternal brotherhood unlike any other experience in life.
I think it is very easy to get caught up in the media and only look at the American heroic view of the war.
However, there are people just like Rafi who are peaceful and kind in Afghanistan who were born into the situation and have to continue to live through it.
I think I feel somewhat detached from what is happening there.
If we as a human race could remember those I think we would get a lot more done here on earth.
It allows insight on a country that is thousands of miles away and in a sense makes a connection to us and our daily life.
It makes me sad to hear that these people have hopes and aspirations that their country will not always be known as one filled with war.
I think as time goes on people will date different races more and more because it will be accepted on a greater level.
The Afghan people have families they are providing for and protecting.
Knowing at first he was nervous with people offering him tea and currently he ismissing it- craving the food,the hospitality, and generosity- furthers the way I now feel about judging a culture.
I originally was going to write about this topic because it hits very close to home.
I agree with your point Callie, location definitely plays a role in the sports people play, and things like culture play a role as well.
Nothing has made an impact on me quite like this.
It caused us to forget the obvious fact that Afghan people are people just like us.
I only would focus on the people that were trying to do harm and I feel like this talk really opened my mind.
This land is still the home to many civilians who rely on the resources in their area to live.
Another thing that made me upset was how we do not hear about the people who are trying to do good in other countries such as Rafi's partner who was killed, trying to help women, just like me, have equality.
Listening to Sam speak about the realness of war for citizens in Afghanistan made me realize that I have not been looking at the full picture.
It had been a dream of mine to go and my grandparents had been three times before so, they said they would take me.
That was definitely what I had previously imagined before I joined the military, so I can certainly understand.
With the question left unanswered, Americans formed a hazy idea of how the Afghan people live, but nothing near the comprehensive understanding they really needed.
This man is definitely someone to look up to.
I know that was not the first thing that popped into my head but it made me realize I need to be more open minded and that there are loving and courageous people all across the world.
They simply want their families and friends to live in a country where bullets arent being fired in the next town over.
Sam also introduced his friend Rafi and showed pictures of his children to demonstrate that people have children and a family like people in the United States.
I just grew up in a household where we didn't talk about race.
All I ever imagined before was a war zone.
When turning on the news you don't see any of the average Afghan people being shown.
I always tried to push the topic of racism to the back of the room in my younger years.
It is frustrating to see the damage that our actions cause, but it is also difficult to argue that we should take it away, as there are powers that threaten us.
I think the media is a large contributing factor to this as well.
Since it is so far away and not affecting our home ground, we do not take it as seriously as we should and Rafi talking about how much the war has affected him made me reevaluate the way I think about war.
I too believe that everyone has a type and to find your match or soul mate you have to be willing open to try anything.
The troops were sent over there to fight for us, but I really didn't understand what for.
Events like this happen all the time and never get recognized because it isn't getting up on the television screen.
I think this really taught people not to judge a culture without actually getting to know it.
Although speaking about society's wayward views on race is a step forward, true acceptance of everyone's races is a feat that may be near impossible.
This lecture showed me what a privilege it is to have that security.
It is sad to see how the number of innocent Afghan civilians killed is rising year after year.
My image of the middle east has always been that way because that is all I have seen on the news, magazines, etc.
The people who you are fighting are often unknown with no distinguishing uniform like in the days of World War II.
He is trying his best to raise a family in a heat of war and he, himself, is receiving death threats.
We should always have empathy towards people in warzones.
I totally agree with everything you said!
Then, she asked us what we pictured when she mentioned the bombs dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
People forget that there are civilians that live like everyone else in these war zones, but the war and to a certain extent the media start to paint a universal image and thinking about the people of a certain nation at war.
The first thing people notice about me is the color of my skin.
I know that I would have a very difficult time if I was living under the same circumstances as the Afghan people, and I give them the utmost respect for trying to continue on their everyday lives despite all that is going on around them.
Media and other factors have influenced us to not care about people themselves, but the population as a number.
In the end everyone has different features, they may be small and hard to notice but they are there.
Rafi's family really showed me how much Muslim's are like us.
In almost every war that we have fought, innocent civilian people have been hurt.
I always thought more American soldiers were getting killed during the war, but the statistics revealed that a significantly higher number of civilians in Afghanistan were killed than American soldiers.
It was also said that they are different that people in the US for that specific reason.
I like how you said Afghanistan is a place with with real people.
Therefore, I never had a personal reason to be invested in the subject.
The first thing is something that I thought about before, but never took much time contemplating.
Simply spreading the word to not judge people based on their race or ethnicity is an easy first step to promoting world peace.
He said if he doesn't do it who will?
I had no idea that the American troops were in so much contact with the Afghan people and that most of these encounters were friendly and inviting in nature.
So this makes it hard for whites to talk about their opinion.
For example who was the first person to point out that black people have a better body structure to play basketball.
They have families and jobs and loved ones, just like us.
Well, it is mainly because we cant understand their lives.
Taking the village leaders offer for tea shows a sign of good faith.
People have different tastes when it comes to dating.
I agree with you that race is not talked about to much.
Caroline, I agree with your point and have done some of the things you have mentioned.
We do not talk about racism enough in the right ways.
White privilege exists and is alive and well.
You cannot look at history and see a moment where racism hasnt been around.
As a kid, I had only heard violent things about Iraq and Afghanistan so I was scared for him to go to Afghanistan during the war.
Children live in these conflict zones and go to school, play around with friends and experience a childhood as well.
A large part of why civilians dont and will probably never understand what it is like to go to war is because they have no one or no thing to help them understand war.
Because the Lieutenant Colonel did not understand the customs of the Afghan people, he did not understand that what the elder was offering him was not merely a cup of tea, it was much more than that.
This idea leads me into my next point of understanding that we have a hard time connecting because we are simply not in the same area and can only perceive information through articles and pictures that the media dresses up for us.
I did not consider that people in Afghanistan have even more drive and reason to work to improve their own country because of how many people from other countries go over to Afghanistan to help with certain matters.
Media has the power to influence how people see other cultures and what they can learn about them.
If you put that in perspective think of how we would being acting if this war was going on here and our lives were endangered like that every single day.
However, that does not mean that every means to serve their nation resorts to violence.
In a crowd I often subconscious look at people and think about how I am either very similar or different to that individual.
I have had a lot of experiences with different races and I feel I can understand a persons background after a conversation.
I am in agreement with Raf and I support the end of the war because it is causing mass destruction for really no reason.
I agreed with mostly every point that Sam made.
I think you make a really good point.
Culture awareness lets the other side know that we are trying to make peace.
In the end, I believe it is important to remember we are all humans with our own needs, wants, and cares.
We as Americans tend to forget what war is and think it is just a thing.
The word generosity does not do justice to acts such as that.
Sam really got me thinking when he showed us the life in Afghanistan.
Just to be happy throughout our life time and live up to our own conscience.
I do not think people understand that this is an actual country just like ours.
But during the war, both sides of the troops need to consider the outcome of using massively destructive weapons because they can hurt really people.
Listening to the stories about the village elders coming out and offering tea to the U.S. soldiers and welcoming the soldiers into their homes was something that really made me wonder.
For me I grew up in a very diverse community and school district therefore, I was always exposed to all different races and backgrounds.
The Afghanistan war began in 2001 and has spanned the majority of my life.
I did not think that far back, to that is an amazing example.
It was very interesting to hear from everyday people in a country that many think is supposed to be one of our enemies.
Because of this we don't feel empathy for things that do not directly affect us.
In 2016 there was a huge push including town halls to get people to vote.
Because of this, I typically dont ask many questions about their deployment at all.
I thought that he used his slides well to illustrate just how similar everyone is, and how people in Afghanistan are just trying to get along with their daily lives just like anyone else.
Civilians who cannot defend themselves from war.
It all was just very eye opening and thought provoking for me.
however, it is these passionate people that we need to make those final votes count.
Just because someone looked different than white Americans, how does that make them any less of a human.
It is different one someone tells you statistics about war, that it kills fifty percent of innocent civilians and that there are bombings every day.
I personally had not thought about how the civilians have to act sometimes in order to survive all that they have.
We do not have the right to generalize that all Afghans only think about war because we do not know many Afghans.
What Drives You To Do What You Do?
I did like when Sam invited his friend to talk about his experience as a soldier.
Me personally I don't know if I would've been able to accept that at first I would've been seeking revenge.
Whether it be a large populated city or some small village that lies between two mountains, war takes place within the realms of people.
I could not imagine living in such terror.
Racism was always the uncomfortable topic because it is one of the longest and biggest internal conflict that seems we can never fix.
War to an eighteen year old kid from Central PA who has never considered enlisting in the military at all, just seems like such a foreign concept in a place that doesnt haven anything to lose from the war.
It was not in this particular video, but when LTC Garey talked about the village elder offering him tea in his home it highlighted that we are not at war with the country of Afghanistan or the Afghan people.
He could very easily keep quiet and could you really blame him?
When the word Afghanistan comes to mind I think about poverty, death, and war and am guilty of forgetting that these places have real people just like anywhere else who want no part in the war.
I think that this is something that people forget.
She is helping us start a dialogue in childrens education.
These are usually people that just want better for their country, but because of ignorance and hate, they are brought in into the war.
It is also interesting to view issues of war from the other perspective, like during the lecture with Bassim.
Today I don't think most people would think of vacationing in Afghanistan for obvious reasons.
I totally agree with what you said that race is beautiful.
No one in my family or extended family has ever really joined the army/navy/marines/etc.
Adam, you bring up an interesting point when addressing the fact that many Afghan people who were emotionally damaged did not have as much hate in their hearts as we would anticipate.
Personally, I am very open to being with someone from another race.
We are simply so lucky to live in such a privileged and free life that we often forget the struggles of other people.
I felt like I did too in that moment.
This connected me to the people of a war area because it reminded me to think about the cultural differences.
It is such a selfless way of viewing the situation.
However, achieving this is not easy feat.
I also had little knowledge of how war affects civilians in their own countries.
Something that we talked about in my discussion group was whos responsibility is it to inform us?
We are the great heroes of the world that is always ready to save the day.
My dad had the same experience with Afghan people- they were always generous and hospitable.
Until we experience it our self or at least hear stories we cannot truly understand what exactly is happening somewhere else.
I think it is also important for Americans to hear this perspective as we consider what military tactics we are using in the region.
It goes to show that being modernized does not particularly make a civilization happy.
I think it would take me a while to see what they saw, even if I met millions of people of different races first-hand and became friends with each of them.
I'm sure most of us wouldn't feel comfortable having tea with a stranger in a village there but that's kind of upsetting because it's almost that the culture is too welcoming for us Americans.
However, assuming we ever fully understand a culture is dangerous and can lead to even more problems.
Its not fair to assume things about people only based on a generalization.
All of this is greater than his fear of the daily death threats that he receives, and for that he is inspirational.
Finally, the last thing that really struck me about Rafi was his story that he mentioned towards the end of the video.
I know a lot of mixed race couples and they are wonderful.
I feel as though, I still am-but I have a different outlook on life.
We dont really understand the extent of the war since our military are the ones fighting for us.
It makes it easier to cope with so much death.
Is it even more arrogant when you are the reason that most of the problems are occurring in said country.
This is the topic that comes up in class a lot because we tend to generalize that all of a certain group act the same way.
From thinking a man was going to put something in his tea to actually missing Afghanistan is quite the transition.
It is interesting to learn about what their life is like.
I agree with everything you said.
This is not the first time this has happened.
We all need to see beyond the media, people in countries like Afghanistan are living their lives like normal people in US.
I am not sure how but most of us somehow disconnect from humanity and what the real world is like.
Not only do we get the privilege of living without war, but are not taught why the war has even began.
I think the main issue though is that we are fighting a war.
I hope one day people will all soon realize that the people there aren't different than the people here.
It was surprising how the Colonel told us that the Afghani hospitality was welcoming.
I think that we do need to make the topic more open to help educate society better and that will hopefully start getting rid of racism!
Not only were there possible spies out listening to them, but that was not apart of his culture.
In our own little ways we can find ways to support people whose lives have been affected by wars and conflicts.
People do not understand that today because life is supposed to be a competition, but in my opinion, I believe race does not define us.
He was there in the first place to find out who was in the Taliban not to have tea.
Every year the numbers get higher and higher, which is scary for the people living in that country.
We cannot just ignore race, as you said, we need to embrace it to a degree but it comes with setbacks.
It is likely this could never be fully traced back, but it is an interesting thought to juggle.
I understand that bad thing is happening but that is only half of the story!
The point that was so clear was when Sam said hockey is a Northern sport and that more white people lived in the North when it originated, he is right that is culture and location.
I chose the video clip Are Sports Inherently Racist?
I think it has to do a lot with where you live and culture.
It says a lot more about a culture when it is suffering from war and its people still welcome outsiders into their home because of their morals and their beliefs.
As you mentioned Jordan, everyone should look to this man and realize how much love, dedication, and selflessness this man puts forth every single day, I think we all can learn something very positive from Rafi.
They are not an abstract concept that live in an isolated bubble our soldiers inhabit every once in a while.
It is both unfortunate but relieving that I was not the only one who was so ignorant or incorrect about what war zones were actually like.
It was not in this particular segment, but eventually Lieutenant Garey talks about his meeting with an Afghan civilian.
Is it even possible for there to be no war?
Stubborn as they are, you cannot change them.
The only difference was the threat of the Taliban and the United States forces looming over the citizens.
Its a shame that those stereotypes exist.
I don't think my parents ever saw it as an issue that needed to be discussed with me.
This really allowed us to know what living there is like.
Its amazing how Sam is opening up the eyes of so many students but it makes me wonder where this ignorance stems from.
I enjoyed hearing about the average Afghanistan citizen as well, because I feel like I have continued to hear skewed info throughout my life.
It is so sad that they being affected by war and terror.
It is hard to resist if all we learn and know have been filtered.
Who will help bring peace to his country and to his family if he didn't try to do something to stop the violence?
Another aspect that I think really brainwashes people into having this interpretation of what war is, is the education we are raised up on.
Families forged from fire tend to have the tendency to have stronger and closer relationship as compared to families forged from bloodline.
You need to see all sides not just one.
Its hard to explain to someone, your excitement to go out on patrol to search for the enemy, to then close with and destroy him.
A better understanding of culture allows for a more worldly perspective that reduces and even eliminates any sort of fear.
Many war zones were civilian homes first, and though they are not meant to be hurt, they are.
So we should stop judging them as bad people because that is far from what they are.
Although people may think of Afghanistan of a place of terror and war there are normal civilians who live there because that is where their families are from.
But I do agree with you with our class being awesome and so accepting of people when it comes to volunteering for class and I do hope more people got comfortable with this discussion topic as well.
We stand up for what we believe in, causing turmoil and issues along the way.
Like I said, some do not even see the battle field on deployment.
It may not be the safest place to visit.
They probably would not have been thrilled at the people coming into their land, but maybe there would have been some amicable agreement.
I feel like it is time that we see something other than people with guns and terrorizing.
War is a terrible thing and we as Americans need to realize how hard the war is on others and be see it from an Afghan perspective.
Im always scared to bring up some sort of touchy subject or ask a question about something that they do not want to think about.
Speaking to Bassim opened my eyes and broke my heart.
So, then you think, what did he do to deserve to live in acountrythat gets bombed and blown up often?
I didn't realize these middle east countries had nice homes or the middle class existed.
It's not everyday you get to talk to people that have experienced the culture in Afghanistan or let alone a citizen of Afghanistan.
It was nice to see his views of the country change as he spent time there.
I appreciate your post in giving a full understanding that there is a miscommunication with the way people perceive Afghanistan.
When it comes to school, a job, a sport, etc., it always comes down to my race.
We see it pop up in the news more often and it has lead to the formation of anti hate groups such as black lives matter.
Sam mentioned how Rafi was raising his daughters and they were growing up in a war zone.
I never truly new soldiers may come out of the experience making relationships and building a connection with this opposing nation.
Besides their definitions, they don't really carry the weight of what it means to suffer and hurt.
Personally I don't think it is eye opening and make a white person realize how hard it is in every aspect and still is for an African American.
The media and average citizen should have asked this question when U.S. military involvement began in Afghanistan.
We are taught growing up that countries such as Afghanistan are war-torn countries where their cities are strictly for battle.
Seeing Lieutenant Colonel Rich Gary in person was very impressive in my opinion as he talked freely about his time and experience in Afghanistan.
I do not see this issue ever subsiding.
Even though there was a con about the snarky comments, Sam immediately addressed the situation and shut it down.
This love may not be big enough to end wars at first, but it could definitely stop bullies, and promote a kinder society.
Also, not living in that effects area can make you feel very disconnected.
When Sam showed us the pictures of the city and traffic jams and shopping mall, I finally realized that some of the people who live in Afghanistan are not that different than me.
There were children who were killed, families who lost everything and people getting killed for no reason.
In this society, we all have ingrained insecurities and most of us would change something about ourselves if given the chance, which is why it was so empowering to hear her say that she is proud to be exactly who she is.
Thus, it is important to learn and listen to realize that people in Afghanistan are real people.
There are a ton of innocent people who are getting harmed from this war which is beyond unnecessary because they are just trying to live their lives like myself.
Many families were killed and where basically left for dead.
Even I thought civilians would be okay since they are not part of the war until we talked about how real people are being affected by this war.
It is mind blowing.
However, rarely if ever does an average citizen spend their day fearing what such an attack could bring.
This being said, it is easy to see why no progress can be made with so many countries involved.
We see it on the news everyday about racial inequality but regardless of the evidence, Americans will never sincerely accept the fact that they were one of the biggest villains that the world has ever seen.
In the United States, we are fortunate enough to not have any war fought on our soil.
My graduating high school class had 130 students and as far as I can remember, out of all of us, there was only one black person and one Asian.
The question that always comes to mind is why is war a continuing thing?
I also did not entirely know what a modern Afghanistan looked like.
But that was my hometown, where my parents were living in.
Without empathy, words are words, and situations are situations.
I think Bassims story definitely sheds light on the unintended effect of the United States foreign policy of drone strikes in the Middle East.
There is a perspective that the American policy caused him massive loss and grieving, and as a result he doesn't think that our country has the capacity to change its course.
It was when Dr. Richards began to talk about the war in Afghanistan.
I specifically want to talk about the war in Afghanistan, it is the longest conflict in U.S history.
I never seemed to notice that part about war.
I saw these chlildren with hardly any clothes or resources yet they have this warm spirit and are so happy.
I believe that racism will continue to exist 100 years from now.
When we are disconnected from each other, and only see what the news shows us, it is easy to get a warped view of what is happening in other parts of the world.
I mean I have heard about it, and kind of know who is fighting who.
I think it was good how honest Lieutenant Garey was when speaking about his first thoughts on Afghanistan.
My prayers go out to rafi and his family and everyone living in a war zone.
I also agree with the fact about how just like people in the US want freedom and peace, Rafi wants it too.
This lecture was very eye opening for me as well and I look forward to broadening my view on the current war.
They may not have much, but they are still willing to give and help.
I am from Ethiopia and when I came here, just like most African Americans I have faced certain things but that comes with the history of the country and the fact that I am black.
I personally had never thought about the implications of war when it is local.
I again put myself in his daughters shoes and I couldnt imagine saying goodbye to my father every morning, like it was my last time seeing him.
I would say that war can beneficial in its own way, but when it comes down to it war is not good.
When is somebody going to take the courage to finally begin to implement actions to solve this.
My view on war is simply just a representation of the lack of empathy that Ive been raised to have with such simplicity and a lack of worry about my home land.
Mushroom cloud and houses and buildings torn apart were common responses.
I knew as much as most Americans, which is that its a country that has been a battlefield for a long time.
This lecture opened up my mind to sympathize for the majority of people in Afghanistan as they are innocent and how asmall amountof people there are evil.
My teachers mentioned it to us, and I would see it in the news, but I never really took the time to understand it myself, which in this case is my responsibility.
Real people are being affected here.
This most definitely opened up my eyes and showed me how privileged we truly are.
Fearing those people lead us to not giving them a chance to be learned about and appreciated as a nation.
But that is not true since Afghanistan is a country of almost 35 million people which is a large number and there is no way that all of those people are bad.
Soldiers who had been served in Afghan would have developed a special bond to Afghan.
If everyone is always fighting and arguing, the world is only going to get worse.
It is 2017 and it seems that things have not changed.
My oldest cousin left when I was young, but old enough to comprehend how dangerous a war can be.
Rafi is a prime example that not all Afghans are in favor of the Taliban or the war in general.
Categorizing people makes things simpler, but it can be unfair.
Unfortunately, my mind drifts towards the negative ideas, such as terrorism, violence and the home to awful people who target and attack the US.
I know I am very quick to judge to an extent and I need to work on that.
I wonder how Raf and his wife have communicated their situation to their two beautiful girls.
The very first thing he told our class was that he was a peaceful man and this just hit me kind of hard.
The next thing the lieutenant said shattered my previous opinion even more.
We need to remove all preconceived notions that are brought about through stereotypes and misinformation from the media.
Another story that connected me to the people in war was the story of the man who made LT come in for a cup of teas before he would share information with him.
The fact that our country was founded on racism definitely is a huge reason why we think the way we do today.
This video really opened my eyes up to these concepts of war and showed me a different side of war.
However, they did not mean every man.
This is one of the most powerful statements Ive heard thus far in class.
They don't deserve for people to look at them and think they are people filled of hatred, when in reality they just want to live normal lives like we do.
Talked about Martin Luther King and how he changed the lives of many people, or even just learning how others can be different than ourselves.
For me growing up in the United States I was never directly affected by war simply because our army tends to be always be fighting over seas and there is never a war in our homeland.
But when I heard Lieutenant Garey share his story about how individuals were accepting and a man even invited him into his home for tea was amazing.
They are poor and do not live normal lives.
I found this point in class interesting as well and agree with you.
They have jobs trying to make away just like we are.
This question has been overlooked for too long.
It really was surprising to hear about the constant threat that Raf is living in while just doing his job.
Educate someone to respect someone else and there would be no problem with differences.
It is important for speech therapists to understand that so we dont provide them with inadequate services due to the fact that we dont know something about their culture.
It seems like a hopeless cause when the superpowers of the world are at war and you are just one person.
When I hear someone say Afghanistan I automatically think of war and see images of my parents.
It was just interesting to have the lens switched because obviously most Christians don't agree with the extremist groups and the same goes for Muslims.
In your post you raised a lot of good points involving race in our culture.
but what I think is more important is that we can never imagine the influence in between the people after they gone through all these together.
Ive even heard plenty of stories of Afghani families that would invite service members into their homes for a large meal and well wishes.
His whole life he has been threatened by the current war in afghanistan.
I say this because Ive never said goodbye to my parents in the morning and worried about them being assassinated that day.
He did not do anything wrong, yet he was targeted and his family was murdered.
I like your quote about how if history repeats itself if we fail to learn from it.
This obviously isn't true because the media doesn't portray the positive aspects of the country of what it actually used to be before war broke out.
If people know the number of civilians in Afghanistan being killed is increasing why is there nothing happening to help decrease those numbers.
Maybe that was just the military person in him, always trying to be aware and smart about things, but I think I would have done the same too.
The conversation between Basim and our SOC 119 class is one that I willalways remember.
Going off of what you said, I find myself wondering why people don't just get up and leave as well.
I completely agree with you in the fact that I also don't believe we talk about race too much in America.
It certainly is visible that more black people participate in basketball while white people lean towards hockey.
The other thing is at my school there were basic sports, we don't have hockey, lacrosse, swimming, etc.
All we hear in the news today about Afghanistan is related to the ongoing war there, and nothing about the people that are being affect by this war.
Two very good reasons for war, which ended up being completely false.
We cannot forget it.
It is affecting the innocent citizens of Afghanistan, and I think that is rarely thought of when it comes to both the decisions of the U.S. and the Taliban.
They are happy and thats the life they know.
I never seemed to realize that war really does affect real people.
As a civilian, I had little understanding of what life as a soldier is like.
Learning about the country you are going to occupy should be a requirement for the US military.
One thing that I wish would have been mentioned in this discussion by Sam was our Penn State reads book, It's what I do by Lynsey Addario.
The media is biased to show images and videos of war torn, destitute shots.
Throughout the class and my small discussion groups we have said that white people tend to be the most uncomfortable and offended when it comes to race which I've noticed can be very true.
These movies display a Hollywood version of the Middle East that is very different from what it is really like.
In the video I selected, LTC Garey was asked the question  What thing did you learn while in Afghanistan that shocked you the most.
The first thing that should be established is that we are all humans, and should be treated in humane ways.
When LTC Garey said this, I was taken back at the fact that a majority of this soldiers time was not on a battlefield, but simply interacting with others in the country that he was fighting.
However, for Basim, he still continues to lead a normal life, and from what I saw, seemed to feel content with the way his life is now.
We can try our best to minimize the issue but unfortunately there is always going to be a group, individual, community reversing our progress.
People all over the world may be going through tough situations/issues, but everyone handles it differently.
And I also agree with you that maybe the educational system is very Eurocentric.
You are hard pressed to find interviews with the actual grunts on the ground that truly shows you what it is like.
We seem to be taught as a country that all Afghan people are violently, vicious, mean, etc.
These children are brought up learning their cultures values which are often very different from American cultural values and social norms.
I knew that being a soldier was about intelligence training and teaming up with the locals, but I had no idea how important that actually was.
If the news would have shown events like this to the general public and let them know what is actually going on overseas, then Afghanistan would not have such a negative war connotation.
All it took for independence was Mahatma Gandhi and a few protests.
When I go to Argentina to visit my family it is predominantly white so I use to think that race wasnt an issue.
The men of the town were gathering to discuss the importance of voting.
However, as Rafi mentioned, he cannot just wait around and let other people take action.
Learning about the hospitality of Afghan people encourages me to try to be a better person in that way.
It make complete sense that the elder and his family would be supporting the group that had the most power, because in the long run they are the ones that can do more damage should the elder go against them.
I like the part of your response where you say The war may eat such cultures and values up.
I think the fact that we do not completely know the other culture makes it even more interesting to share and communicate.
Like you said, the Middle East is portrayed far differently in the media.
Christians believe that the bible is Gods written rules on how we should conduct our lives.
With infinite access to the internet in modern times I too believe there should be so much more accountability for not educating yourself.
Civilians, whether or not they want to, are affected by this war greatly.
They should have the same experience that we had in class with the two guests who spoke.
However, the soldiers interpreted it as poison gas and made the decision to kill the kids and put out the gas.
They have the same dreams and goals as us like going to school, getting a job, and having a family one day.
The point you said about media not knowing everything but wanting the public to think they know everything is really important.
You always see the people with the big guns walking around looking very intimidating.
When he mentioned he was a lawyer in this country trying to create laws and regulations to decrease the violence in Afghanistan I began to wonder why.
However, these citizens were at the wrong place at the wrong time, walking to work and getting their day started when Little Boy was dropped.
I too, have never experienced a college class where social media has been advocated to this extent.
It's also interesting to see how friendly the Afghan people are to the american soldiers.
I agree with you in feeling outrage at the U.S response to Bassim's loss.
It is hard to imagine it as a prospering place with families who have the same dreams as we do when all we are exposed to is images of poor children and war and deserts.
What can we do to ensure that war wont affect innocent civilians?
In our Sociology119 class here at Penn State we are giving an opportunity to enrich ourselves with more knowledge about the world we live in.
Bassim has survived unthinkable atrocities as the result of war.
Every war that has preceded this has been fought on foreign soil.
Then when asking yourself that question it's impossible to answer because he doesn't deserve that.
I understand your feelings about suddenly understanding the situation that the citizens of Afghanistan have to face on a regular basis.
I do chalk a lot of the issue up to ignorance.
I think every nation has its own fascinating cultures and values.
We don't have battles and bloodshed on our own land, that's what happens to other people, miles and oceans away.
I cant imagine having to constantly worry about whats going to happen next since its pretty much a war zone.
How could you be expected to forgive a country that bombed your home, your dog, your family?
I grew up in an extremely safe and close knit community, where walking around alone at 11 pm felt perfectly safe.
I am guilty of thinking that way as well.
After watching this video, the people and events of Afghanistan became more real for me.
I believe there is more to the job of a soldier than most people recognize.
I know from personal experience one of my history teachers in high school made it a point of emphasis to open up class with a discussion on current events.
He does what he does because he feels it is his responsibility.
Learning about other cultures intrigues me, but it seems tough to know where to start unless you can talk to someone from that culture.
All in all I definitely agree that Raf was a great guest and it is amazing to see someone fighting for peace amid all the war.
If the war was switched and occurring in America we would want it to end to, most people would not be agreeing with the ideology of a select few.
Though he is a hero, war was a traumatic experience.
When he spoke, something that he said had a shocking impact on me.
When he went through that list I was trying to put myself in his daughters shoes.
He then shows us Afghanistan broken up into its different districts and states how the districts are split up kind of like our own states.
Afghanistan has bustling cities with crowded streets and traffic jams and shopping malls just like American cities do.
We always tend to look down at places like Afghanistan and such when in reality, there are a few things that Americans should learn from them.
I went to a Model United Nation Conference in Washington D.C., talking about South China Sea issues with other American students.
The Tea Story was extremely impactful and interesting, like you said, and I completely agree.
He needs to be able to spread his experiences to both civilians and cadets alike.
The vast majority of us here at Penn State have absolutely not idea what it would feel like to wake up every morning wondering if you would live to see the next, or whether or not you would have another day to spend with your loved ones.
He mentioned numerous times that the great people of Afghanistan are seeking peace.
Just trying to imagine what they go through daily is impossible.
As for me, I could not even imagine being in those civilian shoes because what is being done to them is something no one should ever have to deal with.
From an outsiders' perspective, wouldn't that seem a little extreme?
I agree with you when you said that US does not talk about any branch of security openly with other countries.
I have always wondered how would be to spend a day in the shoes of ______ culture.
Of course, every country deals with its own issues, but at the end of the day, there are positive sides to the story as well.
The constant remembrance of these hard times can lead us to be more fearful and lash out leading to worse situations.
He was more thankful that he is alive today to talk about his experience rather than being bitter about the events that occurred in the past.
I believe a lot of this can be attributed to the way media presents what is actually going on in the world.
They have to appease those in control to stay alive.
All it takes is awareness.
To date, I can admit I fail all of the identification games we play and every time Sam calls out to the white people to make a point, I am 100% his audience.
I wish I had enough courage to do what this man is doing in order to help others.
What can I do?
And how much do we care?
Now, I do not watch a lot of news and I do not keep up with a lot of current events in our world but I feel like this side of the story is never even spoken about and that is why I had never put the thought into it.
All of these small details allow me to make connections to my own traditions and family values, which makes the people of Afghanistan seem even more alike to my family and I than I ever imagined.
I do not agree with treating people like lab rats.
Most of this racial tension in conversation results in certain groups not feeling their opinions are worth being heard, while other groups are worried that theyll overly offend another group.
This particular story struck me because it showed how important it is for the US military to understand the culture of a nation before they go there.
I have sometimes turned the blind on an issue because I am a white male and I am not sure what to say or do because I fear I will offend someone or make things worse.
When Rafi was talking to us about his life, and how similar it was to ours, thats when it hit me!
I think that the media is the major influence on most people from different countries around the world.
I think we need to do a better job at paying attention and staying educated about what is going on in the world around us.
Just one of the many blessings of being born into the right nation.
Yet here we are over 25 years later and we are seeing more of these headlines in the news.
When Dr. Richards said Rafi was receiving death threats, I originally had trouble understanding why he would stay in that situation.
Whereas in American culture, speaking up and answering questions in class is seen as a good thing.
Sitting through this lecture has taught me so much and has changed my perspective on war and what is happening.
So why is it so hard for us to see that?
One thing that I love about this class, is that it allows us the opportunity to talk about issues and topics that may be taboo or difficult conversations.
I thought this class was particularly interesting because I feel like the war in Afghanistan is an issue that people forget is even still going on.
That is the side of warfare that society never gets to learn or hear about, but more people should be told those types of stories.
Looking at the war from a different point of view and thinking about how citizens of Afghanistan must feel has really changed my perception of war.
I think the example of India is one of the best examples of the military not understanding the culture they are working with.
The story that the Lieutenant Colonel told us is a very powerful example of that.
He still holds a job, has friends, and lives his life normally.
So, do we talk about race too much?
That goal is universal, and is applicable to what people want in the U.S. as well.
Not everyone who lives there is violent.
He could walk away from trying to stand up against the Taliban and let other people continue to try to take care of it.
Terrorist groups do not need fighting soldiers to be their targets.
He always were jerseys to school and he loved the Celtics.
One thing that I realized from listening to LTC Garey is that I really think I misinterpreted what being at war entails.
All in all I did really enjoy how I was able to dive into the current news in high school but do believe that everyone can do a better job to educate themselves on what places of war are actually like.
I thought Ahmad Rafi did a wonderful job of giving our class a clear view into the mind of an Afghan citizen.
It is almost hard not to be mad at myself for being closed minded enough to think that Afghan people are completely different from me and you, but I am just glad that I gained a little bit more insight about Afghan people from this lecture.
Although I read news articles every day, I still do not have a clear picture of what the U.S. is doing in the Middle East.
Only a minimal amount of the class could be used for current events but I did appreciate how he would talk about modern news every class.
He is talking about something like a dream, a long-term goal that might never be achieved in his life time.
In my opinion, there are two sides to take.
I always picture war as thousands of soldiers on a battlefield, shooting one another, and that was the extent of it.
I can think of this question in different scales and that will totally lead to different answers.
I have had many thoughts, ideas, and pictures of Afghanistan before.
This story highlights the utmost importance of learning the culture of a country.
Race is important to understand and key in making America what it is today.
This man is inspiring.
I think this topic discussed was important because of two main realizations or understandings that I encountered.
I also agree that one day teams will look more diverse due to sports spreading out geographically and traditional ways being broken.
The superpowers of the world want them to keep fighting.
I am not a expert in noses, but I feel slowing down and looking would have definitely helped him to be more accurate.
Instead, we create some false picture of, maybe, what we would rather think.
They have a great culture that I would not thought about learning about if we were not introduced to it this class.
It has also made me aware of the cultural exchange that is a result of this.
Having no concept of another culture, you might be nervous when interacting with someone from that culture for the first time.
Not until last year did I first start thinking about the impact of war on civilians.
Teachers should start to focus on these interactions that soldiers actually have on a day to day basis so that students and people in general can begin to grasp what it is that our American soldiers actually do every day.
My mom is no longer in the military and my dad is active duty but both have been deployed to Afghanistan.
The U.S led coalition has been responsible for the deaths of many Afghan civilians, that is a fact that cannot be ignored as was evident from the presentation.
To me, there is no such thing as talking about race too much.
I feel like everyone should be educated on what is going on.
My only wish is that somehow and someway he finds justice, although I'm not really sure if it would ever make up for what he's lost.
The coverage of Afghanistan on the news is what really made out a bad image for them in America.
When I heard the word Afghanistan the picture that would automatically come in my mind is similar to what LTC Garey says in this video.
They might gave reasons for going, but I believe the reasons where just an excuse just to go invade another country.
It was amazing because that would never happen in the United States if the situation was flipped.
When Sam brought speakers from Afghanistan and America, I wasnt sure what to expect.
The hardest thing to face about both of these books and religions is what Sam based this video off of: interpretation.
I thought that the class on September 12th was one that I found particularly interesting.
It really makes you think about how trivial our daily issues are compared to what people in other parts of the world are going through.
Therefore I feel it is important that we take our own initiative to learn about what the media will not show.
Im wondering how others reacted to this lecture, especially the part featured in the video, and if it pulled at their heartstrings at all.
The war has caused American troops to loose their lives and some families have been left in the dark.
I naively had the wrong ideas of the Islamic faith, thinking that it was a much more complex and strict religion than a religion like Christianity.
Also, like you mentioned, I think children should grow up learning the war from another perspective.
It is by seeing the Afghan people as people that we will limit the amount of casualties but I also believe that that will prolong the conflict.
His lack of understanding for the culture in Afghanistan delayed his objective in pinpointing who the Taliban men were in the town.
In fact, they can even relate and assist our own soldiers.
White privilege is a thing, statistics back it up, but I feel that its not the answer to everything.
He said social work, economy and normal life are destroyed and that was difficult to listen to.
They are the ones minding their own business so therefore, they would have nothing to worry about.
This made me realize that the we are only being given half of the story.
I never looked too much into it because it didnt affect me personally.
He begins by saying that if he stops fighting, then who will continue?
I also found this portion of lecture to be interesting.
The idea that someone is different naturally puts people on edge.
This was the first time I wasnt exposed to the radical images of afghan people, and for the first time I realized that I was in the complete wrong and I fell into the social norm of stereotyping.
In modern media, other civilizations are generally shown in a way that implies certain meanings about them.
Things are not as bad as they seem.
I guess I always knew it was genetics but I didnt know why our features are the way that they are.
To be honest, I never understood the Iraq war.
Because of this, it is really hard for me to understand the amount of death and sacrifice that was put into this war by so many different people.
Innocent people are dying while trying to live their everyday lives.
Sams discussion made me think more about religion and that it might be interesting to read both the Bible and the Quran to get a better understanding of what the books actually tell people to believe and follow for their daily lives.
The only reason that I can tell myself is that maybe were just doing everything for our own sake.
Seeing the photo of Basim's house after the bombing made it even that much more real to me.
Im sure that the good people in the USA and the good people in Afghan all agree that we wish those awful people amongst us would just go away and stop ruining the beauty of differences.
And until you start to see these perspectives on a personal level, it will be hard for the majority of civilians to understand what war is like.
He already changed my opinion of the Afghan people and that was after hearing him speak for a short period of time.
This was surprising because often times I feel as though people (including myself) associate regular people living in the Middle East as having a strong political position with the party that is native to their country.
I guess at the time, I really did not have much choice to choose from-talking race wise.
But from taking the time to actually break down these differences in people based off of where they are from really made me think differently about the topic of race.
So why are they only showing us the bad things that happening in Afghanistan.
However, it appears it is the opposite.
By hearing people speak about war and seeing the real people and families afflicted we gain a sense of understanding and empathy that we may not have had before.
The people wanted to teach them their morals, religion, way of life, and overall culture so they could have a better understanding of who they truly are as a country.
Like Sam said, the vast majority of people in power are white.
However, someone who doesnt want to be there will not resist the temptation to be distracted by their technology platforms, and will not take away what the student who DOES want to be there, gets from the class.
Race can have hundreds of meanings depending on who is talking.
Real people being affected by war.
Bassim is truly a great individual, and I appreciate him and Sam coming together to have him speak to us.
I thought it was cool that their culture is about giving, even when most have so little and I think we can really learn from the people of Afghanistan in that sense.
The Lieutenant never mentioned the word generosity but at the end of his speech Sam did.
We live in the country and have soccer, cross country, basketball, baseball, softball, track.
Once Sam started telling the story of Basim and showed the pictures of his house and family, it really put things in perspective.
Young and innocent blacks have been victim to racism by the police for several years now.
It is amazing how Basim is able to forgive and carry on with a purpose, which leads to my thought that it is very important for the people who do not understand the Islamic faith to become more educated on it.
Him and his best friends that were white talked basketball all-day-every-day.
Afghanistan in the recent decade has faced war.
I think the citizens and people of a country at war are not always thought about.
Reason being, the white person is just imagining that they were being treated like africans americans.
Even Richard mentioned that he had his own convictions that were not so in favor of these people.
I really appreciated this discussion about the civilians in Afghanistan because it is a topic that has never once even crossed my mind.
His home was completely demolished with rubble and broken pieces of concrete everywhere.
It's really refreshing when Sam bluntly points out how we are all the same, regardless of our skin color or our distinctive racial features.
Firstly I couldn't agree more that society is very open to interracial relationships.
This simmering discontent under the British yoke is what led to the Revolt of 1857 when several Indian men conscripted in the British army mutinied and led a nationwide revolution to eject the invaders out of India.
I agree that this is likely due to a lack of exposure to diversity.
Well see that 50 Afghanis were killed in a suicide bombing at a wedding but we cant imagine the impact of that.
I agree with your thoughts on how little we discuss Afghanistan outside of the war.
I never paused to consider the Afghan people whose homes were being invaded.
My high school was pretty diverse, so interracial dating was normal and accepted.
Some people feel so strongly that we have reached a point of no return with the state we are in.
Maybe, then, it is important that we take some initiative of our own to go and explore other cultures for ourselves.
Education would allow individuals to walk in someone elses shoes before engaging.
They live such different lives than I do, however, it wasnt weird to me that they do have such different culture.
We have no power to start, prevent or end a war.
It is so upsetting to think about how many children and families fear for their lives while doing simple everyday things, such as taking the bus to school or going to the grocery store.
I found his strength and humility to be incredible.
Afghanistan is a real place with real people who have normal lives like any other country in the world but because if the war people are living in fear not knowing what is going to happen next.
As Rafi said, his wife says goodbye to him everyday before he goes to work not knowing if there will be an explosion that could hurt him or his family.
American are being misguided and I feel like it is time for us to inform and show the people of this place and not the war!
Personally, if I had to send my biracial daughter to school I would never allow her to go through what I went through.
This man has such strong beliefs and demonstrates just how much he believes in what he is doing for his family and country by continuing his work.
The same exact thing that happened to Bassim has probably happened to many other families in Afghanistan, but no one here in America talks about that.
You cant always pin the problem on white privilege and how easy they have it.
I used to think the war had more of a negative impact, but it is clear that I was wrong.
I always thought that war was about the United States constantly fighting and shooting the enemy in order to protect our citizens.
It saddens me that we live in a world so divided still today.
Jordan, I feel the same exact way about Rafi and the incredible bravery he puts forth every single day of his life.
After hearing about the bombing, it made me think about how I'd feel if a local shopping center near me were to be destroyed by a foreign military.
There is obviously still problems with race in out country and no matter the color you are, you see it in everyday life.
If soldiers do not understand about a religion, it would be difficult to find the solution to the problem.
In reality, we all have the features to help us survive in a certain climate.
Growing up, I always read about war.
Cooperation and dialogue is not one sided however, and assuming the other side is welcoming especially in a war zone is a leap of faith at times.
They bounce off of each other and its awesome to be around.
I completely agree that everyone has their own views and ideas about life and war over in Afghanistan.
He talks about his wife saying goodbye every morning because they do not know what could happen that day, whether it be a bomb or another attack.
It is absolutely unfair to the civilians, and if situation was flipped and our land was being ruined mercilessly, we would obliterate them.
But I think it all depends who the person is honestly.
They have their own word that's the K word, which is super offensive and something you just don't say if you're decent, but it's still not as serious as the N word.
I grew up in a quiet, suburban area, unfamiliar with war and all the pain that comes alongside it.
Racism is something this country does not like to talk about.
As a participant in this activity, I would have to agree that Jeffton did a very good job.
I think that I assume that people from Afghanistan are violent because everything we hear on the news about Afghanistan is war related.
It is interesting that you brought it back to colonization.
Even though we have this great opportunity, you cannot go on campus a single day without hearing someone complaining about school.
They are regular individuals that have families, jobs, hopes, and dreams.
My first thought to why Americans might not understand the actual capabilities and qualities of other countries was directed toward our education system.
His openness to it makes the class so interactive, even though there is so many people in the class.
He was born in Afghanistan and has to continue to live through conflict each day.
It was an opportunity that not many people have and it was awesome to be a part of it.
I was a little taken aback when Sam asked about how black people can point out the shine to [Jeffrons] skin and white people cant.
No one should ever be scared to live in their own country whiles they have done nothing.
War seems to really dehumanize people.
I did find it inspiring when he felt that God had a reason that he survived the bombing and that he must keep on living for his son.
Our main mission, which has been the main mission since 9/11 is to eliminate terrorism wherever it may exist.
We all grow up differently and every class we have makes me want to be more empathetic towards people before I start making automatic assumptions based on their race, religion, culture, etc.
He's one of the greatest people I've ever met.
However, for people living in Afghanistan, the war, the presence of other countries, and the danger around them are a part of their lives.
I agree about the media falsely informing the public about how people in countries like Afghanistan actually live.
I would argue, because women are built differently, not because women athletes do not work as hard, their records, on average, fall short.
I think it may very well be the case though it is hard to tell.
Elementary school was tough, because we learned the basics.
I agree that conflict can look far away and unrealistic at times, and this is due to the fact that we do not live it every day.
Blindly doing what you think is right without considering how it might look is short-sighted.
I also have changed my perspective of them and realized that they are similar to us.
I never really put myself in someone else's shoes, and thought about how they felt.
These two bombs claimed multiple lives and was a tragic, mournful day in our nations history.
Hearing about what life is like in a war zone has changed my perspective on my own life.
I grew up in a low income community all my life and looking back the predominate sport has always been basketball.
It took insight from a native to help give him the directions of how to approach the elder- by talking over tea.
Certainly I am idealistic, media will always show some bias in their presentation of other peoples and it is a shame.
Afghans are made out to be individuals who are always in war, and that is all they know.
Every time a civilian is hurt it affects the lives of all others.
Most people seemed very unhappy to announce they didn't truly believe in our Country to pull through this incredibly difficult time we are in.
I cannot fully understand it, but I do believe it is there.
That isnt the response I really expected from the Lieutenant because Ive heard the same thing that he had, that Afghan people were people of war.
I think this man is incredibly brave and I find myself questioning whether or not I would be able to do the same thing.
Here he was, in America, speaking to us and safe from those threats.
I just don't understand why that is all we are exposed to.
Even though they are experiencing war, they are still generous and kind.
A future where all skin colors, religions and cultures are accepted as one.
We never really think about the little parts that make the whole of it up.
He talked about some small kids that were killed because they were doing a good luck ritual for the American soldiers involving incense.
He told us a lot about what the lifestyle there is like and the constant danger he faces every day.
After hearing what its like living in a war zone, I feel as though I have taken living in country as safe as America for granted.
That is the major point I got out of this class.
I wasn't even really sure where Afghanistan was until Sam showed us the image in class.
I am sad that my friends were treated that way.
There are many cultures have similar policies where they keep open doors and are more friendly to their neighbors.
They never thought it was an issue in our household.
Just picturing a United States in which we walk around worried that well be shot in crossfire or have our houses or schools bombed at any given moment by a person who has never seen our faces or shook our hands scares me a lot, but its just a reality that millions of people are forced to live with.
I feel the US does not talk about any branch of security openly because they do not want other countries to know how they operate.
This class session was really interesting and deep having people with first hand experience of the Afghanistan war in class to talk to us.
They were not only do harmful things to other countries, but also they are threatening those who are citizens of Afghanistan.
In the video on, What can the military do better?
He made a great point that when we often hear about a country like Afghanistan, we attribute it to the things we are subjected to the news.
In that sense, I mean that we are sending people into war with no concern for their life.
I was able to join the women in their dance.
This is a subject that never usually crosses the minds of people who are raised in America because we are so accustomed to the norm of racism that most of us are unable to think outside of the box.
It makes me cringe to think that some place within driving distance of me could one day be turned into a war zone, just like in Afghanistan.
It showed me that he really does value us and care about how we feel in class.
I completely agree with you that we need to not jump to conclusions about people or groups of people so quickly.
This person tells Lieutenant Garey that the side the local people support is the side of whoever has control of their community at the time.
I think that once people see this distorted image they naturally picture Afghanistan to be that way.
Those lives of young boys who were burning the incense in order to protect the soldiers could have been spared if it were for a simple understanding on the soldiers part.
Peace isnt achieved until either side gets what they want and stop the fight.
Most people don't get to experience what he got to experience so I appreciated him sharing it with all of us.
Yet it is a reality Rafi (and his now deceased partner) faced everyday they did their work.
While I am not necessarily trying to prove a point with this response, I feel that this observation is worth acknowledging and discussing, so I'm glad that lessonbrought it to everyone's attention in class.
We need to just find a balance.
When we learn about war in history classes, it's more of a rundown of facts.
The fact that they cangracefully pick their lives back up and trek on with fulfilling responsibilities is astonishing and honestly quite inspiring.
For me, this particular clip made me think about my own life.
I never understood why people had different colored skin before this class.
The worst of it all is that many of these groups are the most vocal ones but only make up a small proportion of the population.
The amazing part is how Rafi does not HAVE to put his life on the line.
It is almost unimaginable to think about what life in a war zone would be like after having grown up in the United States.
I can never imagine what I would do if I lost everything suddenly.
Like Lieutenant Colonel Garey says, most of his job overseas was interacting with civilians.
The question asked was what did you learn in Afghanistan that shocked you the most.
I have been lucky enough to have never encountered war directly.
Although they are sad it does not phase the attitude and no matter what they contain to go throughout their everyday lives doing what they feel they were put on this Earth to do.
I also grew up catholic and later on became a non denominational christian.
It is unimaginable to be in Rafis position.
He is aware his life is on the line, yet he keeps fighting the good fight.
The fact that Americas interest in oil in Iraq lead to so many deaths is unfathomable to me.
I thought Raf was a very kind man and the way he talked about his family was adorable.
I find myself being completely guilty of that mindset, and I absolutely need to change that.
I also agree that there are elements of Afghan culture that Americans could learn from.
I am responding to your post because I feel like you also did that for me.
It is inhumane for Americans to not view these people with value.
There are to many stereotypes that are associated with different cultures, which causes everything to be so difficult.
By addressing race we allow input for others who may feel otherwise, ultimately resulting in more issues.
I think this is a really broad question.
Many people don't understand how war affects people's everyday lives.
They are very different from one another in regards to there occupation, she is an art teacher and he is a business man.
Clearly there are simple disconnects, such as the soldiers misunderstanding why the children were running down with incense.
It was great to have Rafi come and talk because he opened my eyes to the fact that people in Afghanistan are real people.
I could not imagine living somewhere and then one day having my world turned upside down due to another countrys government.
